help me identify the most essential files needed to create a clone for arena.ai.






Complete Isometric Business Simulation with Living World & Deep Economy


Capital Game for Classroom Learning and Corporate Training

Capital Game offers an engaging and interactive learning experience that accurately simulates real-world business situations. This unique platform enables students to hone their strategic thinking, decision-making, and problem-solving skills within a secure virtual environment, devoid of any real-world risks. By incorporating Capital Game into classrooms and corporate training programs, educators and trainers can facilitate a more hands-on and practical approach to business education.



Scouting Out Your Environment

When you first start a game you should take some time to scout out the map that has been generated for you (it is random each time, even for scenarios). Some important things you will need to keep in mind:

Find out what the Wage Rate of each city is. This is important as it determines how much your assets will cost to build and maintain. Lower wages mean that you pay your employees less and construction costs are lower. Aim to build factories in cities with low wages, as they will be cheaper to produce goods in. On the other hand you should build your retail stores in cities with high wage rates, as that will be where the high income customers will spend the most money on your products.

Check Wage Rates by opening the cities menu and selecting Economic Graphs:
Beginners Guide: Scouting Out Your Environment
Note that this strategy is most effective for products with a low necessity index (such as Computers or Automobiles, which are a luxury product), as cities with high wage rates will spend more on low necessity products, but cities that have either a low or high wage rate will spend their money on products with a high necessity index (for example Food). If the product is a high necessity product you are often better off building the factories and retail stores in the same city to save on freight costs.

To check the necessity of the product, see the Manufacturer’s Guide:
Beginners Guide: Scouting Out Your Environment (2)
Pay attention to land costs – the outskirts of cities typically have the cheapest land and will therefore be the best locations to build factories, farms, R&D centres, etc. Low wage rates usually mean cheaper land as well.

If you need a quick glance in terms of what land in a city is valuable or not, tick the Land Value Overlay when constructing a building. Red/Orange is high value, yellow is mid-value and no colour is the lowest value:


Retail stores should however be always located in busy areas with high customer traffic, even if the land is expensive. Just like the land value overlay, the red and orange areas have high traffic, yellow a middle level of traffic and no colour indicates minimal traffic:
Beginners Guide: Scouting Out Your Environment (4)
Freight Costs

Be mindful of the freight costs between your farms, factories and retail stores. The further away they are from each other, the higher the cost of freight. The best strategy is to cluster your factories and farms together so that the raw materials and semi-products don’t have as much distance to travel. In addition keeping your factory cluster close to a seaport is ideal as it lowers the freight costs of imported materials and also lowers the freight costs of exports to other cities.

You can check Freight Costs in the Sales Unit of a retail store, where is shows you both the purchase cost charged by the supplier and the freight cost to ship it to the store. Remember that the suppliers don’t pay for the freight or receive any money from it.
Beginners Guide: Freight Costs

In the case of a factory, you can get a detailed breakdown of the freight cost of each and every input; including the cost of shipping it from one city to another:
Beginners Guide: Freight Costs (2)
Seaports and Competitor Suppliers

The Industrial Seaports are a very useful way to jump start your manufacturing business. If you need certain semi-products to create your own finished products then you should try buying them from the seaports rather than trying to produce them yourself, at least in the early game. Even if only some of the required materials are available at the seaports, you can still save a lot of money by only trying to produce for yourself what is absolutely necessary.

For example this seaport allows you to import Car Bodies. This saves you from having to invest in a Car Body factory. It also saves you from needing to invest in the semi-products and raw materials needed for Car Bodies (Plastic, Glass, Steel, Oil, Silica, Coal and Iron).
Beginners Guide: Seaports and Competitor Suppliers

If Car Bodies or other car parts are not available from the seaports then breaking into the automobile industry will be more difficult as you will have to pay for all of the factories and mines to produce all of the needed parts; an expense almost always unaffordable at the game start.

Be sure to scout around at the start of every game and make a note of what products every industrial seaport has for sale and strategise accordingly. Game difficulty usually increases when seaport quality is lowered or if there are fewer industrial seaports.

Industrial Seaports are noted with an I on the minimap, C is for a commercial seaport (which sells retail goods).
Beginners Guide: Seaports and Competitor Suppliers (2)

As the game progresses, your competitors will begin to produce their own products and offer them for sale on the open market. It may be cheaper to buy these products from your competitors rather than producing them yourself (especially if the required amount of inputs are low). Very often they will offer higher quality inputs at a better price than the seaports:
Beginners Guide: Seaports and Competitor Suppliers (3)

Be careful about reliance on the seaports and competitor suppliers in the longer term. Eventually once you have enough capital you may be able to make better products at a cheaper cost than the seaports and also seaport supplies may eventually stop depending on the difficulty level.
Supply Chain Overlap and Selling to Competitors

If you do choose to become independent of third party suppliers such as competitors or the seaports you may notice that you are producing more products than what you need for your finished goods, for example producing more Electronic Components than what your Computer factories require.

Aside from reducing the output from your factories and farms there are two other ways you can deal with this surplus production:

    Expand into other product categories that use similar inputs.
    Let your competitors buy your surplus production.

In the first case you should check the Manufacturer’s Guide and then try pinning the input you want to look at to see where else that input can be used. An example is shown below for Electronic Components:
Beginners Guide: Supply Chain Overlap and Selling to Competitors

As you can see there are 21 different products that can be produced using Electronic Components as an input! This means that if you run an Electronics factory you can use that same factory as a supplier to a wider variety of products. Of course you do need to produce other inputs as well:
Beginners Guide: Supply Chain Overlap and Selling to Competitors (2)

With this information in hand you will notice that some product categories are closely connected. For example Home Appliances all use Electronic Components, same with Electronic and Photography Products. If you have dominated one product category and want to expand, then these would be your next logical targets for expansion, as you already have a large part of the input materials that you need.

Similar overlaps can be found in other areas such as Food and Snacks, Leather and Apparel, etc. Consult the guide to learn more about these potential connections.

The second approach is to sell to your competitors. This will automatically happen as long as your firm does not have Internal Sale set. If your products have a high enough rating (a low price and high quality) then other companies will start buying from your firms. This is generally a good thing in most cases as they will pay you a steady stream of money in exchange for factory capacity that would otherwise go to waste.

You can in some cases skip the retail stage entirely and just let your competitors sell your goods for you (but you will miss out on the retail mark-up).

If you want to know who is buying from you, select View Clients and it will list all of your buyers; along with how much they are buying from you and what they are producing:
Beginners Guide: Supply Chain Overlap and Selling to Competitors (3)

There are some reasons however that you may want to block sales to your competitors (set Internal Sale on)

    You want to conserve resources or they are using too much of your capacity and you can’t expand capacity to keep with their demand levels.
    They are directly competing with you (for example they are buying your high quality electronics to make the same products as you are, undermining your quality advantage).

Keep in mind through that if you set Internal Sale on this will not affect existing supply contracts. You will have to demolish the factory or raise the price to a very high level to stop all existing supply contracts to your competitors.
Debt

Debt is a good way to expand your business. Borrowing money at the start of the game is very useful, as it allows you to effectively double your starting capital by borrowing up to 100% of your current assets. This can allow you to expand your business much further, provided that you can pay the monthly interest. In the example below you can acquire up to 400 million in starting funds (but you will have to pay 15 million in interest per year):
Beginners Guide: Debt

Some things to keep in mind when borrowing money:

    You don’t need to pay the loan principal back; you only need to pay the interest on the loan. You can choose to pay the principal back at any time.
    The loan principle will slowly decrease over time due to inflation, which also shrinks the interest payments, which means that the effective interest rate is not as high as it first appears.
    As long as you have enough assets as collateral you can keep borrowing more money, so as your company expands you can keep borrowing more to expand faster.
    You should also be careful not to borrow too much if you can’t find any profitable opportunities for the borrowed money or if the risk is high.
    You should pay attention to changes in the rate of inflation or the interest rate. If the interest rate is too high and inflation rate is also low then it is probably a bad idea to accumulate more debt and a good time to repay existing debts.

One final note about debt: In the Banking and Finance  there are additional options for financing, including Bonds, borrowing from Competitor banks and Credit Ratings. If you are using this  then please see the following articles for more details on how these features work:







Issuing and Buying Corporate Bonds and Municipal Bonds

One of the most anticipated new features for the Banking  is the ability to issue corporate bonds.

Compared to taking loans from bank, issuing corporate bonds offer you the advantage of lower interest expenses and is generally a preferred way of raising funds for your business.

Issuing and Buying Corporate Bonds and Municipal Bonds

To issue a new bond, access the “Financial Actions” page from the Information Center (hot key: F11). Then select “Issue New Bonds” at the top-right of the interface.

Now set the Issue Quantity and the Term Length of the bond you intend to issue, then click the “Issue Now” button to issue the new bond.

The Term Length can be 5 years, 10 years, 15 years or 20 years.

The Bond Credit Rating can range from the highest credit rating of “AAA” to the lowest credit rating of “D”.

Investment-grade credit ratings: 
AAA – Prime investment-grade
AA – High investment-grade
A – Upper medium investment-grade
BBB – Lower medium investment-grade

Junk bond credit ratings:
BB – Non-investment grade (Junk bond )
B – Highly speculative junk bond
CCC – Extremely speculative junk bond
CC – Junk bond with substantial risks
C – Junk bond high likelihood of default
D – Junk bond that is default imminent with little prospect for recovery

The Coupon Rate is the rate of interest payments that your company makes to the bond holders annually. It is affected by the bond’s Term Length and its Credit Rating. A longer term and a lower credit rating increases the coupon rate and your interest payment burden.

Issuing and Buying Corporate Bonds and Municipal Bonds (2)

In the above example, the company has successfully raised $10 million and $20 million respectively by issuing 5-year bonds at a coupon rate of 5.5% and 10-year bonds at a coupon rate of 6.5%.
The Bond Market

As an investor, you may buy and sell bonds issued by other companies on the secondary market. To access it, either select “Bond Market” from the Information Center or press the hot key Ctrl-B.

If the City Economic Simulation  is enabled, you will be able to buy municipal bonds issued by city governments as well. There are buttons at the top of the interface allowing you to limit the bond list to show only corporate bonds, or municipal bonds or both.

Corporate Bonds: The Bond Market

When buying or selling a bond, the key pieces of information to pay attention to are:

Credit Rating – the bond’s current credit rating.

Price (market price of the bond) – This is the price investors willing to pay for buying the bond. It is affected by the central bank’s interest rate and any changes that may have happened to the bond’s credit rating. For example, an improvement to the bond issuer’s financial conditions may lift the bond credit rating and thus positively affect the market price of the bond. Conversely, if the company’s financial situation worsens, its bond price will decline.

When the central bank hikes the interest rate, it will have a widespread effect to the bond market and virtually all bonds will suffer from price delinces as investors demand higher interest payments from bonds in general.

Yield (yield to maturity) – For an investor buying a bond from the bond market, the market price may be different from the initial bond price. The price difference affects the effective return that the investor will receive. For example, when an investor buy a bond at $90, which is $10 lower than the initial bond price of $100, the total return will be higher than the coupon rate, thanks to the lower purchase cost. The effective return rate is called yield to maturity.

As a bond investor, you may choose to hold a bond until its maturity and receive regular incomes from its interest payments, or trade bonds on the bond market for quicker profits with the buy low, sell high technique.
Viewing the Issued Bonds of a Corporation

You may view the list of issued bonds of a selected corporation on the “Bonds and Loans” page from the Corporation Details screen.

Corporate Bonds: Viewing the Issued Bonds of a Corporation
A Company Buying Back Its Own Bonds

A company may opt to buy back its own bonds from the secondary market, reducing its bond interest payments. This option is particularly appealing when the bond price is significantly below the issue price and the company has ample liquidity.
The “Out of Cash” Screen

A new option to issue bonds to raise funds is now available on the “Out of Cash” screen.

Corporate Bonds: The "Out of Cash" Screen
Bond Redemption

At the maturity of a bond, the bond issuer is obliged to redeem the bonds. If the bond issuer does not have sufficient cash for the bond redemption, it will have to raise funds by other means such as getting new bank loans or selling its assets.

Corporate Bonds: Bond Redemption
Bond Default

A bond default happens when the company behinds the bond has gone bankrupt. Investors of the bond may lose all the values.



The Stock Market

Another way you can get money is by issuing shares on the Stock Market. The amount of money you can raise with this method depends on your current share price – so it is a bad idea to do this early in the game or if you are in financial trouble as the share price will be too low and this means that you will raise very little capital and your company will become vulnerable to a Hostile Takeover (if any single person or corporation buys 50%+ of your company shares it is game over!).

For instance in this example you can only raise 48 million and the shares are diluted by nearly 25%, this is not a good way to raise capital:
Beginners Guide: The Stock Market

But in the late game when your business is already very profitable and has a good share price, issuing shares can be a great way to raise a lot of money quickly in order to grow further without debt.
Right Sizing your Supply Chain

Make sure that your factories and farms are the right size. If you make your farms and factories too big then you will be spending more money than you need to on both the initial and running costs. Generally speaking the size of the farm or factory required is dependent on the products you are producing and the size of the market you are selling them into.

Some products such as Automobiles (and Car Bodies), Computers or Frozen Meat will require larger factories or farms. While other products such as Glass, Rubber or Plastic usually requires smaller factories or farms.

When producing semi products you should also consider anticipated demand levels. If you are producing Golf Clubs you will only need a small factory to produce the required Steel (it may also be better to just buy the steel from someone else) but Automobiles need a large or medium sized steel factory as those finished products require large amounts of steel and will cost a fortune to buy from someone else.

If you are unsure what size you need then try experimenting a bit, the supply/demand indicators will tell you if your factory or farm is producing too much or too little.

For example in this case this case the yellow bar (supply) is large compared to the orange bar (demand). This indicates that this factory and the factories supplying it might be too large, or it could mean that the retail stores are not selling enough. You will have to check both your factories and stores to see what the problem is:
Beginners Guide: Right Sizing your Supply Chain

Be sure as well to wait for a little while before making a decision – sometimes the demand may exceed the supply if the inventory of a store or factory is filling up. Factories will always keep producing and purchasing units will keep buying inputs as long as there is inventory space.

Once the inventory is full however the demand will drop – so make sure that the demand is based on actual sales to customers, such as this case below where all of the sales units are unable to sell cars fast enough:
Beginners Guide: Right Sizing your Supply Chain (2)

This indicates that it is not the case that the factory is too large, rather that the retail store is not selling fast enough, in which case more stores may need to be built or the sales units need training (to sell faster).
Selling Products

You should make sure that you are selling products at a fast rate. One problem that occurs early in the game is that very few people want to buy your goods. For example when I try to produce cars in this example there are very few customers:
Beginners Guide: Selling Products

But why do I get very few sales? The problem is that the overall rating is only 6. The reason why the rating is so low is that the Brand is zero, the Quality is only 35 and the price is too high. This combination makes for a car very few want to buy:
Beginners Guide: Selling Products (2)

There is a way around this however, if the rating is too low then your best bet is to immediately lower the price (Brand and Quality improvements will take a longer time). You will make less profit per unit but you will ship more units and this will increase your overall profit and start the process of building brand loyalty (when combined with advertising).

In the longer term you should also build up the brand with advertising and improve the quality of the product via R&D and sourcing higher quality semi-products. That way you can charge a higher price again (or sell even more units).
Branding and R&D

Branding and R&D are very important – but it is easy to spend too much or too little on these. Before making any decision on branding/or R&D take a look at the product you are selling – does it have a high rating for tech quality or branding?

For example if you look at Cigarettes you will notice that 60% of their rating comes from branding while only 15% is based on quality and the remaining 25% on pricing:
Beginners Guide: Branding and R&D

This means that if you are going to sell Cigarettes you should go heavy on advertising and should not bother that much with R&D or producing high quality tobacco.

In contrast all of the Frozen Meats only rely on branding for 20% of its rating (and 40% each for quality and pricing) and therefore you should probably not spend much, if anything on advertising it but instead offer cut rate prices and high quality:
Beginners Guide: Branding and R&D (2)

In the case of R&D you should check the above ratings for the product, if quality is an important component then R&D will also become more important, but in addition you should check how much of the actual quality is determined by R&D.

For example 40% of the rating for a Mobile Phone is determined by quality, which means you should pay close attention to it but not only that, 80% of the quality is determined by Production Tech. This makes Mobile Phones a VERY R&D intensive product! The optimal strategy then is to not worry about the quality of the raw materials for your Mobile Phone as these are unimportant; instead you should spend a lot of money on R&D and a modest amount on advertising:

Beginners Guide: Branding and R&D (3)
Beginners Guide: Branding and R&D (4)
Product Obsolescence

Beware of product obsolescence – depending on what products you are producing you will have to keep up with developing new products and learning to phase out the older products. In Capital Game most products will never go obsolete; however some products in the Automobile, Communications, Computer and Photography categories will go partially or fully obsolete.

If you are unsure of which products will go obsolete check the Manufacturer’s Guide, which will explain which products will replace which and how long it takes for the demand to shift to the new product:

Beginners Guide: Product Obsolescence

In this example above the Mobile Phone is replaced by the Camera Phone. The speed at which the demand will shift is medium, meaning that the process will take several years. The Max Demand Shift is 100%, meaning that once the transition is complete Mobile Phones will have zero demand, making them completely unsellable at any price.

Demand Shifted only starts once the Camera Phone is invented and is actually being sold in stores. This indicates how much demand has been lost. Once it reaches nearly 100% then the old product is deemed obsolete and you should stop trying to sell or produce it.

To mitigate this problem you should do the following:

1) When you start producing a product such as the Mobile Phone, immediately begin a new product development for its replacement (Camera Phone). The sooner you develop the new product, the sooner you can reap the rewards and leave your competitors behind.

2) If a new product is researched, don’t panic! Demand will only decrease slowly, so you can still make money if you offer lower prices, better advertising or improved quality. None of these remedies will last forever but you may be able to make enough money to catch up or go into a new industry.

3) There is no issue with selling both a new and old product at the same time. New products will take time before they become very popular and the old products can continue to make sales for many years to come.

4) Don’t hesitate to buy technology from your rivals if you are behind. To buy tech, build a headquarters and create a CEO Office (or hire a CTO) and you will have the option to acquire tech:
Beginners Guide: Product Obsolescence (2)

As you can see here there are two companies offering better tech for a Silver Watch. Try the one with the highest value first, it is unlikely to be successful as your competitors won’t want to hand over their best tech to a potential competitor, but sometimes you will get lucky. The company with the second or third best tech is more likely to sell it to you. This will raise the quality of the product and make it easier to catch up using your own R&D assets:
Beginners Guide: Product Obsolescence (3)

5) If you are going to R&D any product, be sure to check the Unknown Technology menu at the top of the Manufacturer’s Guide. It will give you useful information about what has been invented and what technology or date is required to unlock another technology (for example Smart Phones need Camera Phones to be researched and they can only be researched after the year 2000):
Beginners Guide: Product Obsolescence (4)

6) Finally to enable maximum R&D speed you should maximise the training at your R&D Centres and, if the budget allows it you should hire a CTO and take advantage of their skills (more on Senior Executives and Training in the next sections).
Training

Training is a great way to boost the productivity of your firms and to allow them to make you more money. When a firm is first created all of the units will start at Level 1 (unless you have expertise or senior executives, more on this in the next section) and with training they can be boosted to the maximum level 9.

There are two ways to train your employees:

    Setting the training budget for an individual firm.
    An Intensive Training Program.

Per firm training tends to be inexpensive but it is also slow, taking months for each level increase. However since it is cheap to perform you are generally better off using this method of training when you first start the game. Setting a training budget can be performed in the firm itself using the slider (highlight the bar if you want to see what it is costing you per month):
Beginners Guide: Training
You can also set the training budget for all firms at once via the Human Resources Department in your Headquarters:

Beginners Guide: Training (2)
If you have a lot of money and you want to increase the level of your firms instantly, you can use the option: Organise an Intensive Training Program. This is expensive and it will be applied to all of your employees that are below level 9 all across your corporation (you cannot pick and choose which firms will get the intensive training or not):

Beginners Guide: Training (3)
This is a good way to boost the productivity of your firms in circumstances where a rapid increase in production/sales is needed (such as after inventing a new product with high demand).

Senior Executives and Expertise

Senior Executives are any people you can hire to manage the high level functions of your corporation. The executives that you can hire in Capital Game are:

    Chief Operating Officer (COO)
    Chief Technical Officer (CTO)
    Chief Marketing Office (CMO)

There is also the CEO (Chief Executive Officer) but this role is always occupied by you and cannot be changed.

Senior Executives can be very useful as they can give your corporation bonuses in research, marketing, manufacturing, etc. as well as manage some aspects of your corporation for you such as advertising or marketing. However they are also very expensive to hire and will demand more money from you as your corporation becomes more profitable.

To hire a Senior Executive you will need to build a Headquarters and the relevant office for that position:
Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise
Once you have setup their office you will then need to hire an appropriate candidate. Let’s use the CTO as an example:

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (2)

For our CTO you will want a candidate which has a high level of expertise in Research and Development, the higher this level, the higher the bonuses you will get for Research and Development (however they will cost more to hire):
Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (3)
Once you have hired your CTO you will have information on their current annual salary as well as the bonus they provide to your R&D centres.

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (4)
An expertise of 90 means that the R&D centre units will have a level of 5 when you first build it, saving many years of training and allowing you to research products much faster than without a CTO, such as this Camera Phone only needing 3 years of development:

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (5)
Without this CTO the same project would take more than 4 years:
Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (6)
A word of caution: a CTO may try to change the current research project or the training level of your R&D Centres. If you don’t want this then you can change the Management Policies of the CTO (you can also terminate their employment if you don’t want them anymore):

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (7)

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (8)
The other Senior Executives are similar; the CMO will control all marketing (subject to a marketing budget limit you can set):
 Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (9)
You can also fine tune their level of control over advertising and branding as well as what media firms they use:

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (10)
The COO is a powerful senior executive that can if you want manage some or all of your firms. In addition, unlike the other executives the COO’s expertise is applied to all of the categories including Marketing and R&D:
Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (11)
In the above example any retail store will have highly trained sales and purchasing units, any factory will have more highly trained manufacturing and sales units and any R&D Centre researching Communication Devices will have a bonus speed in the R&D units.

If the COO has expertise in Farming and Raw Materials then the bonuses would also be applied to those firms as well, making them more efficient.

The COO can also control many aspects of your business such as what to sell in the stores and at what price, so you may want to tell them which firms they are allowed to control or not control as they could make decisions that you don’t want:

Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (12)
Feel free to experiment around and if you are unsure than the above interface has several tooltips that will explain how each control works.

The last and most important senior executive is the CEO, which is your in game person. While it is not possible to change the CEO there are two things that you can do with the CEO:

You can set your personal salary at the headquarters, which is a good way to accumulate personal cash without paying dividends to other shareholders:
Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (13)

The other is that you increase your own expertise with Knowledge Points (the effects are the same as the COO above):
Beginners Guide: Senior Executives and Expertise (14)
Knowledge Points can be accumulated by fulfilling goals or assigned to you at the start of a game.

Finally in the case of the COO and CEO, you may want to pick and choose which executive is in control of a specific firm, as their personal expertise is what determines the levels of the units in the firm. So if the CEO is an expert in manufacturing, put them in charge of the factories. If the COO is an expert in retail, put them in charge of the retail stores, etc.
Raw Materials vs Farm Products

Raw Materials and Farm products are similar to one another in that they are both the basic building blocks of various finished products; however there are some important differences between the two in terms of how they will interact with your supply chain.

The major differences are as follows:

        Farms can be constructed almost anywhere while Raw Materials require specific locations on the map, this means that you have limited choices to plan the raw material aspect Raw Material of your supply chain.

        Farms are cheap to build compared to Raw Materials sites, which means that supplying your own raw materials is usually not a good idea unless you have a lot of money and a high demand for raw materials.

        Farms will never deplete their resources while raw materials will run out and a new site will need to be selected. This requires you to plan ahead with recurring expenses.

    If you increase the training level for farms, the quality and quantity of the farm products produced will increase all the way up to 100, making training on farms important for improving the quality of your products. The same does not apply to raw materials; the quality level is fixed based on the plot of land you built it on.

Example of how training affects the quality of farm products.

The Level 1 units in a farm have a quality of 30:

Beginners Guide: Raw Materials vs Farm Products
A level 8 Livestock Raising Unit and a 9 Livestock Processing Unit give a near perfect quality score of 93:
Beginners Guide: Raw Materials vs Farm Products (2)
The quality of raw materials however is set by the location, training cannot change it (also, the higher the quality, the higher the land cost):


Taking out Loans from Banks

In the Banking and Finance , there is no longer a central bank to meet all your lending needs. Bank loans are simulated in greater details.

You must borrow from commercial banks operated by corporations. Each may offer you a different credit limit and interest rate.

If you corporation possesses a bank, you can even borrow from your own bank.
Borrowing a Loan

Open the Financial Actions screen from the Information Center (hot key: F11), and select [Borrow/Replay Loan].

Bank Loans: Borrowing a Loan

First select from a list of banks to borrow a loan from, which may include a bank under your corporate group. Then set the loan amount and the term length of the loan.

Please note that a loan with a longer term length will have a higher interest rate.

You may take out multiple loans from a bank as long as your credit limit at the bank is still positive.
Repaying a Loan

Bank Loans: Repaying a Loan

On the bank list, see the column “Current Loans” for those banks that you have taken out loans from. At the bottom of the screen, you will see a list of loans you have at the selected bank.

To repay a loan, select a loan from the list, then set the repayment amount, and click the [Repay Now] button.






Real Estate and Media

The Real Estate and Media industries are both special industries in Capital Game as they are both not dependent on the production and sale of goods, but instead on providing unique services. To make money with these industries requires a very different strategy to the normal product based industries.

The following guide will explain how to best make money with these industries and under what circumstances you may want to choose to invest in these industries.
Real Estate

Real Estate in Capital Game involves the construction of Apartment or Commercial Buildings and renting out the space to tenants to provide a steady source of income as well as to potentially profit from the price appreciation of the land underneath or around the buildings.

Only companies with a large amount of starting capital and a great deal of patience should attempt to invest in the real estate industry as the returns tend to be slow and relatively small compared to most production industries, but also stable and low risk.

Before constructing your first real estate building you should take a look at the local city’s level of demand for Residential or Commercial space. If the local supply exceeds the demand by a wide margin, then making an investment would be a bad idea, but if supply is below demand then this presents a good opportunity to make money.

To find the supply/demand ratio you can open the City Graphs and quickly glance at the Supply and Demand indexes for Housing and Office Space. A positive number indicates that supply exceeds demand, while a negative number indicates that the demand is much higher than supply. Aim to build in the cities with a negative number:
Media and Real Estate Guide

Another way to look at supply and demand is to click on a Commercial or Apartment building and look at the supply/demand lines.
Media and Real Estate Guide (2)

Once you have found the cities where the demand for new apartment or commercial buildings is highest you then need to choose a location. The best locations for new buildings are the following:
Commercial Buildings

    Near the city CBD (to find out where this is, click on an existing commercial building and look at the Distance to CBD, the higher it is, the closer you are to the CBD):

Media and Real Estate Guide: Commercial Buildings

    Close to existing apartment blocks (you will need several of them for the Commuting Convenience bar to completely fill up).

Aim to build commercial buildings close to the CBD and next to apartment blocks (if there are no apartment blocks in the CBD, you can build some yourself).
Apartment Buildings

    Near Community Facilities such as Police Stations, Hospitals, Schools, etc. The more expensive and diverse the Community Facilities, the better.
    Near Sports Facilities (but also, open green spaces nearby can substitute for Sports Facilities).
    Near retail firms (Shopping Convenience).

Generally speaking if you cannot put your apartments in locations with all three traits then the next best locations are near Community Facilities (as these count the most towards Rent Attractiveness), then Sports Facilities (which are less important).

Building apartments near shops will improve the rent attractiveness as well, but it is usually better to build them in areas where Shopping Convenience is low as normally retail shops will be built by other companies nearby to your new apartment blocks (apartments with tenants increase nearby customer traffic).

This is a good example of apartment building placement for the following reasons:

    It is next to a University, Hospital and 3 different Sports facilities.
    Demand is higher than supply for the city as a whole.
    The Shopping Convenience is low but there is still some space nearby to add additional retail stores, which implies that the value can rise further.

Media and Real Estate Guide: Apartment Buildings

To further improve this it would be ideal to buy nearby land and hold on to it as the price will likely go up when other companies open nearby retail shops and the demand for housing will increase over time. Just be sure to leave enough unowned land nearby for retail shops to be built.
Buying Land

Another important aspect of your Real Estate strategy is land speculation, profiting off of buying land cheap and selling it at a higher price, or reserving land for later use.

The price of land is affected by a variety of factors including the proximity to Community and Sports Facilities, retail shops and other firms, customer traffic levels and the wage rate of the city. Some of these factors you can’t really control but you can still increase the value of your land holdings in the long term.

A good example of this can be seen in many games of Capital Game where the AI Competitors will buy up very large plots of land on the outskirts of a city and slowly add apartments and community facilities to it, effectively creating their own suburb:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Buying Land

If you look at the AI companies that do this you will notice that they are usually Real Estate or diversified companies with a lot of capital. This strategy works well as by purchasing a large amount of land outside of the city it will very cheap compared to land in the centre of the city, but with plenty of potential to become more expensive later.

However their company may not have enough money or the demand for apartment buildings might not be high enough to justify using all of the land at once so over time they will add more and more buildings and add Community Facilities as well to raise the rental value of the properties.

Sometimes the AI may even create ‘Holes’ in the land they own, where a certain block of land inside their ‘Suburb’ isn’t owned by anyone. This can be a good place for someone else to construct a retail store, which is the likely reason they will do this.

In many cases if the AI Company diversifies you may even notice them building their own shops inside their suburbs as well, boosting the revenue of those stores and raising land values further.

All of these actions are designed to maximise the value of their Real Estate holdings. In effect they buy cheap land, add improvements and buildings slowly to build up the value and then profit from the higher rents and land price increases. If you are building your own real estate empire these strategies may be worth imitating as well. Even if you don’t use all of the land you can still sell it later at a higher price than what you originally bought it for.
Managing Real Estate rents at the headquarters

If your portfolio grows large enough you may consider it worthwhile to construct the Real Estate Department at your headquarters:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Managing Real Estate rents at the headquarters

In general your Real Estate rates should in most cases be kept at 100%, but you may want to raise or lower these rates under the following circumstances:

    If demand exceeds supply and there is little competition, raise the rates somewhat above 100% (but not too high).
    If there is a lot of competition and you cannot fill up your buildings to full occupancy then lowering the rates will help attract extra tenants.

Real Estate and the s
City Economic Simulation

In this  you can adjust the level of demand for Commercial and Apartment space, changing the profitability dynamics of the Real Estate industry. You can also adjust the land prices:
Media and Real Estate Guide: City Economic Simulation

In this  you can also run for Mayor of a city and take control of the government. As a result you can add or remove Community/Sports Facilities and relocate retail businesses or other firms. This presents new opportunities to use city funds to benefit your real estate holdings or to harm your competitors (by moving firms away from their land).

See these pages for additional details on how to use these tools:

    Government Mode
    Forced Firm Relocation

Service 

The Service  adds two important changes to Real Estate, Shopping Malls and retail businesses inside Apartment/Commercial buildings.

Shopping Malls are large buildings that can hold many retail and service firms inside them. Shopping Malls are very expensive and take up a lot of land but they can quite lucrative if you have a sufficient number of competitors renting space inside the malls.

Malls will tend to more valuable if the customer traffic levels are higher. Customer traffic can be increased by adding nearby apartment buildings and other firms. If you have a shopping mall it is a good idea to put your apartment buildings next to it as it raises the Shopping Convenience rating of the apartments and it drives more customers to the mall, raising the value of both firms.

Customer traffic can also be increased by adding more stores to the mall; each new mall tenant will drive additional traffic to the mall, benefiting all of the other tenants and the mall owner.
Media and Real Estate Guide: Service 

To drive additional traffic to the mall, it may also be worthwhile to decrease the Rents for New Leases % to a lower level to attract new tenants. Once they are in the mall you can then charge higher rents after the Lease Term expires. You can even add your own stores to the mall to further boost traffic.

Apartments and Commercial Buildings can have Retail Space in the Service  as well if the option is toggled:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Service  (2)

This means that instead of setting up stores inside of malls or buying land for the store you can just use the space inside the Apartment/Commercial Building. This can be a useful supplement to your Real Estate strategy as you can setup some shops inside apartments or commercial buildings and import goods from competitors or the seaport with a smaller than usual level of overhead:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Service  (3)

It should be noted that only the owner of the building can use the space to setup a store, competitors cannot rent the space in your buildings (nor can you rent space in theirs).
Other notes about Real Estate

    The earlier you start the better. Demand usually exceeds supply at the start of the game and competition will usually create excess supply. This is especially true if your competitors start with a large amount of capital.
    Be careful about taking out loans, the interest rates may exceed the rental returns in some cases, which can bankrupt you.
    If you do employ the strategy of building your own ‘Suburb’ then the best places to do it are usually in low wage rate cities as this is where the land is cheapest (and has the most potential to increase in value).
    If you increase or decrease the rent the rates paid will take several months to change so don’t expect immediate jumps in profit after making improvements or changing the rent prices. In the case of Service  Shopping Malls the time frame is even longer at a minimum of 5 years before the rent can be changed.
    Real Estate is typically resistant to recessions, so it can be a good way to diversify your portfolio and reduce the volatility of your profits/revenue.
    Purchasing land can work as a good hedge against inflation; if you hold your money in land it will typically hold most, if not all of its value.

Media

In Capital Game you can use Media firms to generate revenue via advertising through Newspapers, Radio Stations and Television. Media firms are very expensive to build and take a long while to generate any profits, but once established they can become very profitable for the company that owns them.

Revenue from media is generated via two different advertiser types: Corporate advertisers and Local Advertisers. A Corporate advertiser is when a competitor or one of your own firms spends money on advertising their brand. A Local Advertiser consists of people or businesses within the population of the city advertising with your media firm. The share of local and corporate advertisers is displayed in the pie chart of the media firm:
Media and Real Estate Guide (3)

The likelihood that local advertisers and corporate advertisers will choose your media firm for their advertisements depends on two factors:

    Rating Points
    Advertising Price

The higher the ratings, the more impact each advertising dollar has on improving the brand being advertised and so all other things being equal a company will always choose the media firm with the highest ratings if the advertising price is the same so having a high rating is very important:
Media and Real Estate Guide (4)

To increase the Ratings you need to spend money on improving the content of your media firm over a long period of time, the more you spend the higher the Content Quality and therefore the higher the ratings:
Media and Real Estate Guide (5)

Ratings are also limited by competition, if there are more competing media firms it will be harder to achieve a high rating as you will be competing for viewers. The budget will also scale with the size and wage level of the city you are trying to cover as well; a bigger and more prosperous city requires a bigger budget to get the same rating increase.

Likewise the more expensive media firms such as a Television Station will require a bigger budget than a Newspaper Publisher to achieve the same ratings. However the main advantage of using a more expensive media firm is that you can sell more advertising in total.

Once the rating reaches a very high level, it will be much harder for the rating to increase further, even with the budget set to the maximum level; at this point it may become unprofitable to continue trying to push the ratings higher, it may be better at that point to reduce the budget to avoid wasting money.

The most optimal strategy from my own experience is to build a new media firm and then set the budget to the highest level for several years and once the ratings stop increasing or rise only very slowly to then reduce the budget to the point that the ratings remain stable. Another alternative is to buy an existing media firm with already established ratings and set the budget to maintain those ratings.

The Advertising Price is how much an advertiser needs to pay for a certain number of impressions. A higher price can increase your profits per advertiser but it will also make advertisers less likely to choose your firm, reducing your overall profits.

It can be tricky to get the right advertising price for your media firm as it will only take effect at the end of the month and your advertisers are very price sensitive. The best way to get the right price is to check the pie graph of advertisers in your media firms as well as competitors in the same city. For example this pie chart indicates that the price is too high as there is only a small amount of local advertising and no corporate advertisers:
Media and Real Estate Guide (6)

But what price should I set to attract advertisers while still making a profit?

Take a look at the competing firms (in the same city) to find out:
Media and Real Estate Guide (7)

As you can see in the screenshot above, they are getting some advertisers and they are making a profit as well. Their price is about $2. I should try undercutting my competitor by setting an even lower price. After waiting a few months I am getting a lot more advertisers:
Media and Real Estate Guide (8)

It may be possible to lower the price even further to fill up more of the white space in the pie chart, however in many cases there might not be enough advertisers in the city to do this and also it is possible to lower your prices so much that your media firm becomes unprofitable, so you will have to experiment to achieve the right balance.

If you have persistent problems with too much unused advertising space then you may want to try creating a cheaper media firm (such as a Radio or Newspaper), although building the ratings of those firms up again will still be expensive.
Use your media firms for free advertising

One important benefit of owning a media firm is that you can advertise through them or force your subsidiary corporations to do the same. All of the money you spend will be revenue and profit for your media firm, saving you from losing any money from advertising with someone else’s media firm:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Use your media firms for free advertising

Do keep in mind however that if you spend too much money on advertising within your own corporation you may potentially run out of advertising space that other advertisers might otherwise pay for, such as in this example where my own advertising is crowding out the Local Advertisers:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Use your media firms for free advertising (2)

For more information on media firms see this page:

Build Media Firms
Media and Advertising in the Digital 

The Digital  introduced two changes to how media works in Capital Game. These changes are:

    The addition of Internet Advertising
    Disruption to Traditional Media

Internet firms are capable of advertising in a similar way to media companies, but with a few important differences including the fact that internet advertising can establish a brand in all cities instead of just one and also internet based advertising relies on both R&D and a content budget:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Media and Advertising in the Digital 

In addition internet firms can also advertise themselves as well, including with traditional media:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Media and Advertising in the Digital  (2)

As a result of this  Media firms will be less profitable in general as they are now forced to compete with internet advertisers, however this can also be made worse by the difficulty setting called Disruption to Traditional Media which will also reduce the ratings of Media firms in the Digital  over time:
Media and Real Estate Guide: Media and Advertising in the Digital  (3)

It is still profitable in Digital  to use traditional Media firms, but it will be more challenging. For internet advertising the same rules apply as they do for traditional media, keep a high rating (or Reach in this case) and don’t charge too much for advertising.

You can also use your media firms as free advertising for your internet firms as well, using the ratings of your media to increase the reach of your internet company!

For more information on different advertisers in the Digital  see this page:



Integrating Capital Game into the curriculum can yield several positive effects on business education and student learning experiences. These include:

1. Realistic Business Simulation: Capital Game offers a platform for students to simulate and manage various aspects of a virtual economy. By incorporating this game into the curriculum, students can engage in a realistic business environment, gaining practical insights into economic dynamics and decision-making processes.

2. Practical Application of Business Concepts: The utilization of Capital Game enables students to apply theoretical business concepts in a practical context. They can bridge the gap between classroom learning and real-world scenarios, developing a deeper understanding of how theoretical knowledge translates into practical applications.

3. Critical Thinking and Problem-Solving Skills: Capital Game challenges students to analyze complex economic situations and make strategic decisions. This fosters the development of critical thinking skills as students evaluate multiple factors, anticipate outcomes, and adapt their strategies accordingly.

4. Collaboration and Teamwork: Incorporating Capital Game often involves team-based activities, promoting collaboration, communication, and teamwork among students. This cultivates essential skills necessary for success in the business world where collaboration is vital.

5. Practical Skill Development: Capital Game allows students to develop practical skills relevant to business management, such as strategic planning, resource allocation, marketing, and financial analysis. These skills have direct applications in professional settings and enhance students’ preparedness for future careers.

6. Enhanced Engagement and Motivation: The interactive and captivating qualities of Capital Game can amplify student motivation and engagement during the learning process. This, in turn, can generate positive word-of-mouth and contribute to an elevated reputation for the program.

Business Simulation Games are designed to complement the traditional teaching methods.

    They enable students to apply their theoretical business knowledge in an interactive simulation environment.

    AI competitors respond to students' business actions in real-time. Students can observe the impacts of their business decisions and learn from the experience effectively.

    They make the learning process more fun, increasing students’ motivation to learn.


    Students assume the roles of top managers of a company
    They must identify and evaluate market opportunities, formulate business plans and execute them to achieve results.
    They have to make decisions in such business areas as marketing, sales, pricing, manufacturing, hiring, capacity planning, inventory management, research and development.

    Students are given a specific set of business or financial goals to meet.
    They have to face the consequences of their decisions.
    So students must think hard about each decision they are going to make.
    During the process, they also learn the essentials of leadership and team building.


Community and Sports Facilities

Community and Sports Facilities
You can now construct community and sports facilities like city halls, schools, museums, hospitals, and stadiums to enhance the development of residential areas.
These public buildings, previously non-interactive in the original Capitalism 2, are now accessible for players to place alongside their residential properties, boosting property values and rental income.

Civic buildings in Capital Game
To construct a civic building, choose the “Civic Building” option and then select the specific type of civic building you want to build from the Build Menu.


The Evolution of Shanghai from 1990 to 2010

This article illustrates that real estate investment can be highly profitable, if the investment is made at the right time.

The Evolution of Shanghai from 1990 to 2010

In 1990, the city of Shanghai is just beginning its economic ascendancy. Land plots can still be acquired at low costs.

The Evolution of Shanghai from 1990 to 2010 (2)

The acquired land plots have been developed into a residential area. With a green living environment with easy access to community facilities and retail shops, people have moved in and the area has been flourishing.

A booming economy and high rental demand for the apartments have driven up the rental prices and the property values. By 2010, the real estate company has made an outsized investment return of over 800% in 19 years!

The Evolution of Shanghai from 1990 to 2010 (3)

Not only that the property values of the apartments have surged, the land plots in the area have also delivered an equally amazing return on investment.






Types of Internet Companies

The Digital Age  lets you set up a diverse range of Internet companies, as listed below, offering an exciting gameplay experience.

Types of Internet Companies
Revenue Model: Advertising

When it comes to advertising, the key difference between an Internet company and an traditional media company is that access to Internet companies are not limited to geographic locations. Any users in any of the cities can access an Internet web site.

When a business advertises on an Internet company, the advertising effect will cover all the cities. On the other hand, the advertising effect of a traditional media firm is limited to the local city only.

The following are types of Internet companies that generate revenue through advertising:
Social Network

Types of Internet Companies: Social Network

You can set the Cost per Click you charge the advertisers on the Revenue page, as shown below.

Types of Internet Companies: Social Network (2)

If your advertising cost is significantly higher than those of your competitors, advertisers will opt for competitors’ web sites instead of yours. So it will be wise to keep your advertising costs competitive.
Search Engine

Types of Internet Companies: Search Engine
Video Sharing Website

Types of Internet Companies (2)
Photo-sharing Website

Types of Internet Companies: Photo-sharing Website
Microblogging

Types of Internet Companies: Microblogging
Revenue Model: E-Commerce

Types of Internet Companies: Revenue Model: E-Commerce

There is a separate web page dedicated to e-commerce, click the following button to view the details.
E-Commerce
Revenue Model: Service Fees

Web sites under this category generate revenue by charging fees on the services they provide. For example, a hotel booking site charges a service fee for every hotel booking transaction.

The amount of service fees generated is directly proportional to the amount of visitor traffic of the web site.

The types of web sites in the game that operate on a service fee revenue model include the following.
Online Auction Site

Types of Internet Companies: Online Auction Site
Hotel Booking Site

Select the Revenue page to view the amount of service fees.

Types of Internet Companies: Hotel Booking Site
Car Rental Booking Site

Types of Internet Companies (3)
Online Stock Trading

Types of Internet Companies (4)
Revenue Model: Subscription

The following lists the types of web sites that charge a subscription fee for the premium content they offer.
News Website

Types of Internet Companies: News Website
Video On Demand





Overview of Goals

At the start of every scenario you will be given one or more goals, these goals are important to understand as it will shape the strategy you will need to use in order to win. Typical goals often include:

    Product Category/Industry Dominance
    Revenue/Profit goals
    Market Capitalization
    Corporate/Personal Net Worth

There are other goals as well such as Return on Equity, Number of Employees, controlling companies, etc. but this guide will only focus on the above as they are the most common in the built-in scenarios.

Most of these goals are straightforward but some may be a bit confusing to understand. I will provide overview of what these goals mean:

    Dominance of a product category – this means that you need to be the biggest manufacturer of this product category. If you need to be dominant in Furniture for example then you must be the largest producer of Tables, Chairs, Beds and Sofas all at the same time. Being the biggest purchaser of these products from another company or a seaport does not count towards being dominant.

Note: In the case of seaports, the ‘Manufacturing’ share is credited to the seaport itself based on how much all companies buy from it.

    Dominance of an Industry – this means that you should be number 1 in revenue for that particular industry, such as being the biggest Retailer or having the largest Real Estate or Media empire.

    It should be noted that for all cases where dominance is the goal, it means that you must have the biggest market share compared to your competitors – if you have 20% of the market but your competitors individually have less than 20% then you are considered to be dominant (this is true even if all of your competitors shares add up to 80% of the entire market).

Likewise if you are required to dominate an industry such as manufacturing or retail, then you don’t need to be dominant in any products or product categories at all, you just need to be the biggest producer/seller overall. You don’t need a majority of the market to win; you just have to be bigger than your nearest competitor.

    Profit/Revenue is straightforward, in the case of revenue it means the total amount of products/services you are selling to your customers. If you sell a million dollars of furniture in a year, even at a loss then this counts as a million dollars of revenue. Profit is how much money you make subtracted by your costs. Note that profits will exclude certain gains/ losses such as interest payments, inflation/deflation, asset price changes, new buildings and many other ‘One Off’ expenditures/gains.

    Market Capitalization is how much your corporation is worth on the stock market, this figure can change depending on how much the investors value your corporation. If you have a history of making profits, paying dividends, owning valuable assets (including land, technology, branding and shares in other companies) and you have not been diluting the value of your shares than the share price will be higher.

    Corporate net worth is how much the actual assets of your corporation are worth in total regardless of the actual share price. This number could be higher or lower than the Market Capitalization.

    Personal net worth is similar to corporate net worth. It counts all of your personal net worth, including personal cash, mansions and the percentage of shares you own of your company. So if your company has a market capitalization of 1 billion but you only own 50% then your personal net worth will be 500 million (plus any other assets you own).

The best way to increase this number is to either make your company worth more or to gain a greater share of your company (such as by paying your CEO a salary or buying back shares from everyone else).
Achieving Goals

When you first start a game you will need to check what goals you have been assigned along with the sub-goals. Sub-goals are typically optional and the rewards from them can be used to help you along the way to finishing the main goal. If a sub-goal is the only goal you have available then finishing this typically means that a new goal will be unlocked after this.

Here is a straightforward example from the scenario Corporate Leadership:

Goals and Scenarios Guide: Achieving Goals

The main goal is to raise the stock price to $500 and achieve a billion in revenue and 100 million in profit within 80 years.

The sub-goals in this case are smaller versions of the same goal (achieving smaller profits, revenue and share price in 10 years:

Goals and Scenarios Guide: Achieving Goals (2)

In this case you are rewarded for achieving the sub goal (and penalised for losing). The rewards of gaining expertise for your senior executives and knowledge points will boost your ability to achieve the next goals after this.

In the case where there is a sub goal and no main goals, this means that another goal will be unlocked after completing this sub goal. A good example is in the Toys & Gadgets scenario where you are given an unlimited amount of time to dominate the toy industry (but then after this you will need to achieve another goal):

Goals and Scenarios Guide: Achieving Goals (3)

Each scenario has its own unique goals, but the main ones will typically be for Profit, Revenue and dominance of an industry or product category.





Enhanced Simulation of Apartments and Commercial Buildings

real estate simulation infograph
Take your business empire to new heights with Capital Game’s robust real estate investment options:

    Diverse portfolio — invest in apartments and commercial buildings to generate steady income streams.
    Location matters — analyse neighbourhoods and economic trends to pick prime properties.
    Rent management — set competitive rental rates to maximise occupancy.
    Market dynamics — navigate realistic property value fluctuations influenced by supply, demand and economic factors.
    Leveraged expansion — use loans to expand your real estate holdings strategically.

Apartments
The rents and market values of apartments are affected by:

    The state of the economy. When the economy is booming, housing prices go up.
    Access to amenities. People are willing to pay higher rents for apartments with good access to community and sports facilities, a green environment and good shopping convenience. You can see the ratings of these factors in the Apartment Info window.

Enhanced Simulation of Apartments and Commercial Buildings

Enhanced Simulation of Apartments and Commercial Buildings (2)
Commercial buildings
The rents and market values of commercial buildings are affected by:

    The state of the economy. When the economy is booming, prices and rents of commercial buildings go up.
    Location. Companies are willing to pay higher rents for commercial buildings in the central business district. Commuting convenience is another factor; commercial buildings remote from residential areas tend to have low occupancy rates.

Enhanced Simulation of Apartments and Commercial Buildings (3)
Real estate bubble

Enhanced Simulation of Apartments and Commercial Buildings: Real Estate Bubble
Real estate prices tend to rise when the interest rate is low. People can afford a housing mortgage more easily when the mortgage rate is low. Likewise, when bank deposits yield little return, people look for investment opportunities elsewhere — including the property market, for higher yields from rental income.
A booming economy with high GDP growth also spurs people to invest more aggressively in all kinds of assets, including real estate.
When the economy is already experiencing high GDP growth, driving property prices high, and the central bank compounds the effect by keeping the interest rate low, a real estate bubble may occur.
That scenario is not common, as high GDP growth spurs inflation and the central bank is likely to react by hiking the interest rate. In the rare case where high GDP growth has not caused notable inflation, the interest rate may remain low for an extended period, providing perfect ground for a real estate bubble to develop.




City Dynamics

City Dynamics Infograph
City Dynamics is a feature in Capital Game that simulates the population growth of a city realistically. The city’s population growth is influenced by factors such as housing supply and demand, unemployment rate, and quality of living.
What supports population growth

    A low unemployment rate.
    Apartment buildings with good access to community and sports facilities, providing housing to new immigrants.
    Quality of living. People enjoy their lives better when they live in apartments with good access to community and sports facilities, a green environment and good shopping convenience.

City Dynamics
What stops it
A city’s population stops growing, or grows very slowly, under the following circumstances:

    When the housing supply is considerably lower than housing demand, people have problems finding houses and stop migrating into the city — and some may emigrate from it.
    When the unemployment rate is high and people are having a hard time finding jobs, they may move out of the city.

Strategy for population growth
You can strategically build community and sports facilities as well as retail stores around the residential areas to improve people’s quality of living, which will promote population growth and will eventually benefit your products’ sales thanks to a larger population of consumers.
The new buildings built by the player companies and other AI companies will shape the development of the city. You will see increases in land values and traffic volumes in areas with new buildings.

City Dynamics (2)
The Cities report displays an array of useful graphs about the city.






Enhanced Macroeconomic Simulation
The economic simulation engine has been enhanced with the following macroeconomic indicators, which can be viewed on the window below the mini-map:

Enhanced Macroeconomic Simulation
The state of the economy has an impact on consumer demand

The state of the economy has an impact on consumer demand

The state of the economy has an impact on consumer demand (2)
As incomes improve, demand for luxury goods increases
For example, a developing city like Shanghai in 1990 sees its real wage rate increase rapidly in the following decades. As people in the city enjoy higher salary incomes, they will be able to afford luxury goods like cars, video cameras and leather bags.
The Economy Report
You can access the new “Economic Graphs” page on the City report, which shows an assortment of key economic graphs.

The central bank and the boom-and-bust cycle
Bubbles in the stock market and property market may develop if the central bank maintains a loose monetary policy with ample money supply and a low interest rate.

Enhanced Macroeconomic Simulation: The Central Bank and The Boom-and-bust Cycle
In addition, stock prices rise and fall in tandem with different market sentiments and macroeconomic situations, as well as the financial performance of the underlying companies.
High GDP growth and a low unemployment rate will reinforce optimism, and investors’ risk appetite will increase, leading to price rallies in the stock and property market, which will in turn fuel inflation.
When inflation spikes to a dangerous level, the government will have no choice but to suppress it by hiking the interest rate and decreasing the money supply. Subsequently, the asset price bubbles may go bust and put an end to the current boom-and-bust cycle.
The boom-and-bust cycle will start all over again years later, after inflation has been subdued and maintained at a low level for an extended period, allowing economic activity to pick up momentum again.




Technology Disruption
When enabled, technology disruption occurs continuously, causing all technology variables to decrease by 10% each year. This simulates existing technologies becoming less useful over time as newer innovations replace them.
The practical effect is that a technology lead is never permanent. Research that is not maintained erodes on its own, so staying ahead is a continuing cost rather than a one-off investment.

Technology Disruption
Exception handling
Even if the Technology Disruption setting is disabled, technology disruption is still triggered if a product’s top technology exceeds 10,000,000 points. This prevents excessively large numbers, which would otherwise harm playability.




Product Class Expertise
In the game, both the player character and AI-controlled individuals may possess expertise in specific product classes. This expertise provides the following strategic advantages when managing a company:

    Improved R&D Effectiveness — a person’s expertise in a product class boosts the research and development performance of technologies within that class by 1% per expertise point.
    Maintained Manufacturing Levels — when applying higher-level technology to an existing manufacturing unit producing products in the expertise product class, the unit’s level remains unaffected. In the original Capitalism 2, upgrading technology would downgrade the manufacturing unit’s level.

View the Product Class List
Strategic Impact on Long-Term Gameplay
In the original Capitalism 2, long-running games — 80 years or more — often ended with a single corporation dominating most markets. Product class expertise makes that considerably harder. Companies led by CEOs with expertise in specific product classes pose a much stronger challenge, which keeps the field competitive for longer.
From the player’s side, hiring managers such as COOs with strong expertise in the right product classes becomes a real strategic decision rather than an afterthought.
If you prefer the classic gameplay style, the feature can be switched off in the new game settings by setting “Competitor Expertise Level” to None.

Product Class Expertise and Knowledge Points: Strategic Impact on Long-Term Gameplay
Knowledge Points
You earn Knowledge Points as a reward for achieving specific goals in the game. They can then be spent on raising the expertise of your management executives.

Goal rewards knowledge points
Knowledge Points Settings
On the game settings menu, a section labelled “Goal Rewards” sits under the “Goals” tab. It offers several ways to customise Knowledge Points:

Knowledge Points setting

    Turn Knowledge Points off entirely.
    Allow Knowledge Points to raise the expertise of your management team. With this disabled, they can only raise the expertise of your player character.
    Set how many Knowledge Points you start a game with.
    Change how many Knowledge Points each goal awards.

Enhancing Expertise Points
You can spend Knowledge Points on your player character’s expertise, developing the skills that suit how you actually play rather than a fixed progression.
When the option “Can Increase Expertise of Management Staff” is enabled, you can raise your leadership team’s capabilities directly, aligning their strengths with the company’s strategic needs.



ech-focused AI Companies
There are AI companies focused on technology development. They only set up and operate R&D centres, and their founders and CEOs typically possess product class expertise.
Their goal is to research technology superior to competitors, which increases the value of the Intangible Asset (Technology) on their corporate balance sheets. The stronger balance sheet lets them raise capital from the stock market by issuing new shares.
They are eager to sell their technologies to interested companies and generate revenue to fund their R&D operations. Their customers are companies that find it more cost-effective to buy technology than to research it themselves — which also gives latecomers a springboard to catch up quickly.
A tech-focused AI may ultimately decide to manufacture and roll out products of its own using its leading technologies. The years of research invested give it an advantage in competing for market share.
These companies can also be acquisition targets for larger corporations, and may end up assimilated into a larger group.
From a stock trader’s perspective, the share prices of tech-focused companies can be highly volatile: they must stay ahead on technology leadership or they lose their competitive advantage and market value quickly.

Tech-focused AI Companies
Related new features and improvements
Acquire technology from the CEO’s office
Previously you had to hire a Chief Technology Officer and use the CTO office to reach the menu for acquiring technologies from other companies. You can now do the same from the CEO office, without hiring a CTO.
News about technology acquisitions
Technology acquisitions now make the news. You can see all technology-related news about your company, or any particular company, under the History page of the Corporate Detail Report.
Technology breakthrough
Tech-focused companies experience technology breakthroughs from time to time. When one occurs, the R&D project finishes instantly, 10–30 points above the original tech level target.




Intangible Asset: Technology
The corporate Balance Sheet has a new asset item called Intangible Asset: Technology. It gives a tech company a fair market value and allows it to raise funds for continued R&D by issuing new shares.
How the value is determined
Part A — technology at or above the market top
If the company possesses a technology equal to or higher than the current top technology on the market — the “Top Tech.” column on the Corporate Detail Report, Technology page — the calculation is:
Value = <a constant amount> × (the company's tech level − top tech) / top tech
Part B — new inventions not yet on the market
Value = <a constant amount> × (number of years it takes to invent the product using a single R&D unit)
These values decline or vanish once other companies also start selling products using the new technology.




Purchases and Sales of Land Plots
In Capital Game, one of the key features is the ability to buy and sell land plots. This allows players to invest in real estate, develop properties, and earn profits from their investments.
The land market in the game is dynamic, with prices fluctuating based on factors such as location, surrounding development, and overall economic conditions. Players need to consider their purchases and sales carefully to maximise profits and support their business strategy.
This land management aspect adds depth to the gameplay, allowing players to engage in real estate speculation, plan for future expansion, or consolidate their holdings in prime locations.
How to purchase land plots
Click the Land Plot icon located in the upper-left corner of the screen.

How to Purchase Land Plots
Select Buy, choose the size of land plot from the menu, then choose a location.

How to Purchase Land Plots (2)
Factors determining land value
The value of a land plot is affected by:

    The economy of the city. You can view the macroeconomic indicators displayed below the mini-map. Inflation drives land values higher in general; increases in a city’s real wage rate increase land values too; GDP growth and the economic state also affect them.
    Natural resources. If the location has a reserve of natural resources, it is a lot more costly to acquire.
    Surrounding buildings. The density and type of buildings around the plot matter — office buildings, apartments and retail stores lift land cost more than factories do.

land value infogram
To see the market value of a land plot you own and the gain on your investment, hover the mouse over it.

Land Plots: Factors Determining Land Value
Strategy for land investment
A key strategy for savvy players is to acquire land plots in downtown areas at low prices. This leverages the game’s economic dynamics in several ways:

    Growing city economy — as the city develops and the economy expands, demand for prime downtown locations naturally increases.
    Limited supply — downtown areas typically have a finite amount of available land, creating scarcity.
    Price appreciation — growing demand against limited supply pushes downtown land prices up over time.
    Long-term investment — holding these land assets can deliver excellent returns as their value appreciates.
    Strategic positioning — owning key downtown plots positions you to take advantage of future development, or to sell at a premium.

This strategy requires patience and careful timing, but it can be highly lucrative. Players must balance the opportunity cost of tying up capital in land against using those funds for immediate business operations. For those who can afford to play the long game, acquiring downtown land plots at low prices can be a cornerstone of a successful business empire.




Inflation Simulation in Capital Game
Experience the intricacies of economic inflation firsthand with our Capital Game inflation simulation. Gain valuable insights into the effects of rising prices, monetary policies, and market dynamics. Discover how inflation impacts industries, consumers, and the overall economy.

Learn more about Capital Game – the World's #1 Business Simulation Game
When you start a new game with the inflation option enabled, inflation impacts nearly everything with a monetary value, including product prices, land costs, building expenses, salaries, firm operating costs, and more.

Inflation Simulation in Capital Game
Automatically Adjusting Prices Based on Inflation
You can let the AI automatically adjust the selling prices of all your products and modify your advertising spending to keep up with inflation. To enable this, set up a CEO office in your corporate headquarters and activate the options: “Regularly adjust prices based on inflation” and “Adjust advertising spending based on inflation.”
Inflation Simulation: Automatically Adjusting Prices Based on Inflation
Special “Inverse Inflation” mode

Inverse inflation mode Infograph

There is a special mode called “Inverse Inflation,” where cash loses its purchasing power as a result of inflation. The Purchasing Power Index starts at 100% and diminishes during years of inflation. All cash and loan amounts shrink in accordance with this index.

If you simply hold cash and do not make investments, you will see your cash decrease in value along with its purchasing power. To prevent your wealth from shrinking, you must actively invest your cash into assets.

It is a fact that cash always loses purchasing power in the face of inflation, whether the inflation mode is set to “normal” or “inverse.” However, the psychological impact of inflation may feel greater when you see the direct shrinking of your cash value.

In contrast, deflation increases the purchasing power of your cash. During times of deflation, you may notice your cash amount increasing. As a result, it may be wise to liquidate and hold as much cash as possible during periods of deflation.

Loans behave in the opposite way to cash. During inflation, your outstanding loan amount decreases, whereas during deflation, it increases. Therefore, it is often a smarter strategy to take loans during periods of high inflation and repay them when deflation occurs.
Inflation Simulation: Special “Inverse Inflation” mode
Under the “Inverse Inflation” mode, even if you take no action, your cash amount will decrease, whereas the values of your land and resource assets remain unaffected by inflation.

Inflation Simulation: Special “Inverse Inflation” mode (2)

To enable the “Inverse Inflation” mode, select the Environment page from the New Game Settings menu and set the Inflation setting to Inverse.

Inflation Simulation: Special “Inverse Inflation” mode (3)
Revaluation of Currency in Times of Hyperinflation
When inflation reaches 100 times (10,000%), banks will issue new banknotes with a value equal to 1% of the current currency. This process reduces the nominal value of all currency in circulation, making the figures more manageable amidst the effects of inflation.
Inflation Simulation: Revaluation of Currency in Times of Hyperinflation
Strategy Guide for Turning Inflation into Opportunity in Capital Game

Capital Game is a sophisticated business simulation game that immerses players in a dynamic economic environment. A key feature of its Enhanced Macroeconomic Simulation is the inflation mechanic, which mirrors real-world economic principles. This article expands on the Inflation Simulation feature, detailing the driving forces of inflation, its gameplay implications, including opportunities and risks, and how players can influence inflation through their actions.
Driving Forces of Inflation

Inflation in Capital Game is driven by macroeconomic factors simulated within the game’s economic engine. The following are key drivers:

        Monetary Policy: The game’s central bank adjusts interest rates in response to inflation levels. Loose monetary policies, characterized by ample money supply and low interest rates, can fuel inflation by encouraging spending and investment. Conversely, high inflation prompts the central bank to raise interest rates to cool the economy, potentially leading to a recession (Enhanced Macroeconomic Simulation).

        Economic Indicators:
            GDP Growth: High GDP growth increases consumer and investor confidence, leading to greater spending and investment, which can drive inflation (Guide to Boosting GDP Growth)
            Low Unemployment: A low unemployment rate boosts consumer spending power, further fueling demand-driven inflation.

    Economic Cycles: The game simulates boom-bust cycles where inflation often rises during economic expansion. If inflation becomes excessive, the central bank intervenes by raising interest rates, which may trigger a recession to stabilize prices.

economic boom-bust cycle

These factors are part of the game’s macroeconomic simulation, creating a dynamic environment where inflation fluctuates based on economic conditions.
Gameplay Implications

Inflation significantly impacts gameplay, affecting costs, prices, and strategic decisions. Below are the effects, opportunities, and risks associated with inflation.
Effects of Inflation

When the inflation option is enabled at the start of a new game, it affects nearly every monetary aspect:

    Price Increases: Product prices, land costs, building expenses, salaries, and firm operating costs rise with inflation.
    Inverse Inflation Mode: In this special mode, cash loses purchasing power as the Purchasing Power Index diminishes. Cash and loan amounts shrink accordingly, while land and resource assets remain unaffected.
    Hyperinflation: At extreme inflation levels (10,000%), banks issue new banknotes worth 1% of the current currency to make figures manageable, simulating real-world currency revaluation.

Opportunities

Inflation creates strategic opportunities for savvy players:

    Asset Investment: Investing in assets like real estate, which appreciate with inflation, preserves and grows wealth. Forum discussions highlight that rents increase with inflation, making real estate a lucrative investment (Investing in Real Estate).
    Strategic Borrowing: In Inverse Inflation Mode, taking loans during high inflation is advantageous as the real value of debt decreases over time. Players can repay loans during deflation when cash gains purchasing power.
    Price and Advertising Adjustments: Players can enable automatic adjustments for product prices and advertising budgets via the CEO’s office, ensuring competitiveness. Options include “Regularly adjust prices based on inflation” and “Adjust advertising spending based on inflation.”

Inflation Simulation: Opportunities
Risks

Inflation also poses challenges that require careful management:

    Underpricing: Failing to adjust product prices can result in selling below market value, reducing profitability.
    Cash Devaluation: Holding excessive cash during inflation, especially in Inverse Inflation Mode, leads to a loss of purchasing power, as cash value diminishes.
    Deflationary Risks: During deflation, holding assets may be less beneficial, and players should prioritize cash holdings to capitalize on increased purchasing power.
    Economic Recession: If inflation spikes, the central bank may raise interest rates aggressively, potentially causing a recession that reduces consumer demand and impacts business performance.

Table: Opportunities and Risks of Inflation
Aspect 	Opportunities 	Risks
Asset Management 	Invest in real estate or other assets that appreciate with inflation. 	Holding cash during inflation leads to loss of purchasing power.
Borrowing 	Take loans during high inflation to benefit from reduced real debt value. 	High interest rates during inflation control may increase borrowing costs.
Pricing 	Adjust prices automatically to maintain profitability. 	Underpricing due to failure to adjust reduces profits.
Economic Cycles 	Capitalize on economic booms to expand business. 	Recessions triggered by high interest rates reduce consumer demand.
Player Influence on Inflation

Players can influence inflation through their actions through the City Economic Simulation .
Indirect Influence via Business Decisions

Players manage corporations and make strategic decisions that impact the economy:

    Business Expansion: Large-scale investments, such as building new factories or retail outlets, increase economic activity. This boosts the Investment component of GDP, leading to job creation, lower unemployment, higher wages, and increased consumer spending, which can drive inflation.

Direct Influence via the Role of Mayor

The City Economic Simulation  allows players to assume the role of mayor, providing greater control over fiscal policy:

    Government Spending: Constructing civic buildings, such as police stations or community facilities, involves government expenditure, which stimulates the economy and may contribute to inflation.
    Taxation Policies: Players can adjust tax rates to balance economic growth and public services, influencing consumer spending and economic activity.
    Limitations: Monetary policy, including interest rates and money supply, remains under the control of the game’s central bank, which adjusts policies in response to inflation and other economic indicators.

 

Inflation Simulation: Direct Influence via the Role of Mayor
Conclusion

Inflation in Capital Game adds depth and realism to the gameplay, challenging players to adapt to a dynamic economic environment. By understanding the driving forces—monetary policy, GDP growth, and unemployment—players can navigate the opportunities and risks inflation presents. Through strategic business decisions and, with the City Economic Simulation , fiscal policy management, players can influence inflation indirectly while optimizing their corporate empires. The game’s realistic simulation of inflation, coupled with player-driven strategies, makes it a powerful tool for learning economic principles and mastering business strategy.




Product Class Expertise
In the game, both the player character and AI-controlled individuals may possess expertise in specific product classes. This expertise provides the following strategic advantages when managing a company:

    Improved R&D Effectiveness — a person’s expertise in a product class boosts the research and development performance of technologies within that class by 1% per expertise point.
    Maintained Manufacturing Levels — when applying higher-level technology to an existing manufacturing unit producing products in the expertise product class, the unit’s level remains unaffected. In the original Capitalism 2, upgrading technology would downgrade the manufacturing unit’s level.

View the Product Class List
Strategic Impact on Long-Term Gameplay
In the original Capitalism 2, long-running games — 80 years or more — often ended with a single corporation dominating most markets. Product class expertise makes that considerably harder. Companies led by CEOs with expertise in specific product classes pose a much stronger challenge, which keeps the field competitive for longer.
From the player’s side, hiring managers such as COOs with strong expertise in the right product classes becomes a real strategic decision rather than an afterthought.
If you prefer the classic gameplay style, the feature can be switched off in the new game settings by setting “Competitor Expertise Level” to None.

Product Class Expertise and Knowledge Points: Strategic Impact on Long-Term Gameplay
Knowledge Points
You earn Knowledge Points as a reward for achieving specific goals in the game. They can then be spent on raising the expertise of your management executives.

Goal rewards knowledge points
Knowledge Points Settings
On the game settings menu, a section labelled “Goal Rewards” sits under the “Goals” tab. It offers several ways to customise Knowledge Points:

Knowledge Points setting

    Turn Knowledge Points off entirely.
    Allow Knowledge Points to raise the expertise of your management team. With this disabled, they can only raise the expertise of your player character.
    Set how many Knowledge Points you start a game with.
    Change how many Knowledge Points each goal awards.

Enhancing Expertise Points
You can spend Knowledge Points on your player character’s expertise, developing the skills that suit how you actually play rather than a fixed progression.
When the option “Can Increase Expertise of Management Staff” is enabled, you can raise your leadership team’s capabilities directly, aligning their strengths with the company’s strategic needs.




The Rise of Electric Cars in Capital Game

In the ever-evolving world of Capital Game, a new product type is set to revolutionize the automotive industry: the electric car. This innovative vehicle represents a significant shift in transportation technology, offering players new opportunities and challenges in the game’s dynamic market.
Invention and Timeline

The electric car can only be invented after 2005, reflecting the real-world timeline of electric vehicle development. The invention process will take several years to complete, requiring patience and strategic planning.
Components and Production Chain

The electric car in Capital Game consists of two primary inputs:

    Electric Car Chassis
    Car Body

The Rise of Electric Cars
Electric Car Chassis

The chassis is a crucial component, itself comprised of three inputs:

    Wheel and Tire
    Electric Motor
    Electric Car Battery

The Rise of Electric Cars (2)
Electric Motor

The electric motor, a key innovation, requires:

    Steel
    Electronic components

The Rise of Electric Cars (3)
Electric Car Battery

Perhaps the most critical component, the electric car battery introduces a new natural resource to the game:

    Lithium

This addition of lithium as a resource adds a new layer of strategy to resource management and acquisition.
The Rise of Electric Cars (4)
Market Impact

The introduction of electric cars is set to have a profound impact on the private car market in Capital Game. While the transition will be gradual, electric cars are projected to eventually capture up to 50% of the market share. This slow but significant shift presents both opportunities and challenges for players.

Players who invest early in electric car technology and production may gain a competitive advantage as the market evolves. However, they must also carefully manage the risks associated with new technology adoption and changing consumer preferences.
Strategic Considerations

To succeed in the electric car market, players should consider:

    Investing in research and development to speed up the invention process
    Securing a stable supply of lithium and other necessary resources
    Developing an efficient production chain for all components
    Marketing strategies to promote electric cars to consumers
    Balancing production between traditional and electric vehicles during the market transition

The introduction of electric cars in Capital Game adds a new dimension to the game, challenging players to adapt their strategies and embrace the future of transportation. Will you lead the electric revolution or be left behind in the race for market dominance?




New Products

The following is a complete list of products, semi-products, and raw materials in Capital Game:
(Items highlighted in red are new additions compared to Capitalism 2.)

Product class / Product Type
APPAREL
Blazer
Leather Jacket
Jeans
Sweater

AUTOMOBILE
Car
Electric Car
Motorcycle
Automobile BEVERAGE
Bottled Milk
Cola
Grape Juice
Wine
New Products BODY CARE PRODUCTS
Body Lotion
Shampoo
Soap
Toothpaste
New Products (2) COMMUNICATION DEVICES
Camera Phone
HUD Glasses
Mobile Phone
Smart Phone
New Products (3)
COMPUTERS
Desktop Computer
Notebook Computer
Printer
Tablet Computer
New Products (4)
COSMETICS
Eye Shadow
Hair Color
Lipstick
Perfume
New Products (5) DRUGS
Cold Pills
Cough Syrup
Headache Pills
New Products (6)
ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS
Camcorder
Hi-fi System
Portable Media Player
Television
New Products (7)
FOOD
Bread
Cakes
Canned Corn
Canned Soup
Corn Flakes
New Products (8)
FOOTWEAR
Sport Shoes
Sandals
Shoes
Socks
New Products (9) FURNITURE
Bed
Chair
Sofa

Table
New Products (10) HOME APPLIANCES
Air Conditioner
Coffee Machine
Refrigerator
Washing Machine 
New Products (11)
HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS
Detergent
Toilet cleaner
Tissues
Washing Powder
New Products (12)
JEWELRY

Bracelet
Silver Necklace
Gold Ring

New Products (13)
LEATHER GOODS
Leather Bag
Leather Belt
Leather Briefcase
Leather Wallet
New Products (14) LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS
Frozen Beef
Frozen Chicken
Frozen Pork
Frozen Lamb
New Products (15)

PHOTOGRAPHY PRODUCTS
Camera
Compact Camera
Digital Camera 
New Products (16)

SNACKS
Cereal Bar
Chocolate Bar
Cookies
Chewing Gum
Ice Cream
Yogurt
New Products (17) SPORT EQUIPMENT
Back Pack
Golf Clubs
In-line Skates
Treadmill

New Products (18) TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Cigarettes
Cigars

New Products (19)

TOYS
Handheld Game Console
Toy Racing Car
Stuffed Toy
Video Game Console
New Products (20) WATCHES
Elegant Watch
Sports Watch
Smart Watch 
Silver Watch 
New Products (21)
Deep Dive – Electric Cars

Prepare to transform the automotive industry with the Electric Car—a groundbreaking innovation set to redefine the market.

Developing this state-of-the-art technology will be no small feat. You’ll face the challenges of research and development, a process that can only begin after 2005 and will take several years to complete.

New Products: Deep Dive - Electric Cars

However, the rewards for those who persevere are substantial. The Electric Car has the potential to capture up to 50% of the private car market!

Prepare to invest in the future and watch as your company leads the charge towards a new era of sustainable transportation.



Enhanced Product Simulation

Capital Game’s new dynamic feature unveils an exciting evolution in product categories: the introduction of newer products progressively supersedes older ones.

1) Consider this example: traditional mobile phones will gradually be superseded by camera phones. Moreover, the transition becomes much more fascinating with the introduction of smartphones. The majority of camera phone demand will eventually transition to smartphone demand, indicating a shift in consumer tastes in favor of more modern technologies.
Mobile phone 	Camera phone 	Smart phone
Mobile Phone 	Camera Phone 	Smartphone

2) As digital technology refashions the landscape of photography, the shift from analog cameras to digital cameras is inevitable.
Enhanced Product Simulation 	Enhanced Product Simulation (2)
Camera (analog camera) 	Digital Camera

3) The introduction of electric cars is set to have a profound impact on the private car market in Capital Game. While the transition will be gradual, electric cars are projected to eventually capture up to 50% of the market share. This slow but significant shift presents both opportunities and challenges for players.

This new feature vividly illustrates this real-world dynamic, enhancing your immersive experience of market evolutions!
Enhanced Product Simulation (3) 	Enhanced Product Simulation (4)
Car (gasoline cars) 	Electric Car
Understanding Demand Shifts in Manufacturer Guide

The manufacturer guide now offers a clear view of how demand is shifting to new products. For example, it shows that up to 50% of the demand for gasoline cars will shift to electric cars.Enhanced Product Simulation: Understanding Demand Shifts in Manufacturer Guide

Furthermore, to clearly indicate products nearing the end of their lifecycle, the info window will display the word “Obsolete” when the demand shift exceeds 90%.



Retail Simulation Enhancement
Retail simulation in Capital Game now takes into account customer traffic of the retail location and the effect of chain stores, taking realism to a new level.
Customer Traffic
When selecting a location to build your retail store, you can see the customer traffic index of the location, which ranges from 0 to 100. Stores located in areas with high customer traffic benefit from greater demands for their products.
Retail Simulation Enhancement: Customer Traffic
The Customer Traffic of a retail store can be seen at the top-right of the firm detail window.
Retail Simulation Enhancement: Customer Traffic (2)

 
Retail Demand Bonus

A new indicator called Retail Demand Bonus magnifies the effect of customer traffic.

A retail store with high customer traffic and a large retail demand bonus will generate a great deal of demands for its products.

You can increase the Retail Demand Bonus in the following ways:

o   Specialty stores focusing on a specific product class are more attractive to customers interested in such products.

o   Build more stores of the same store type in the current city.

o   Stores in areas with high customer traffic will boost the chain popularity more.
You can view Retail Demand Bonus indicator at the top-right of the firm detail window. More stars mean a higher retail demand bonus.
Retail Simulation Enhancement: Retail Demand Bonus
Retail Chain Strategy: A Competitive Edge
Boost your retail performance by implementing a powerful chain strategy: open a network of retail stores gives you a competitive edge over rival businesses with standalone outlets. For instance, consider opening a series of leather goods stores in high-traffic shopping districts to elevate your chain’s recognition and subsequently attract more customers to your stores.


Setting Up New Media Firms

In Capital Game, you can set up and operate various media firms including television stations, radio stations, and newspaper publishers .

Build Media Firms: Setting Up New Media Firms
Through the dedicated media firm interface, players can manage key aspects of their media business. This includes setting budgets for new content development as well as determining advertising pricing to generate revenue and drive profitability.

Warehouse

Warehouses enable you to stabilize your supply chains by providing storage buffers. This includes supplying raw materials to your factories and delivering finished goods to your retail stores.

You can set up your warehouse with a large storage capacity and enable it to receive inputs from multiple sources. This approach helps minimize supply inconsistencies, which are often experienced with agricultural products due to seasonal supply fluctuations.

Warehouse This warehouse keeps an inventory of electronic goods for your retail need.
Characteristics of Warehouses

The setup and operating costs of warehouses are significantly lower than factories.

You may store raw materials or finished goods in your warehouse.

Warehouses are available in 2 different sizes. The larger version of the warehouse has double the capacity and throughout of the standard one.

Characteristics of Warehouses This warehouse keeps an inventory of electronic goods for your retail need.
Functional Units in Warehouses

You may set up the following functional units in your warehouse.

Warehouse Input Unit – it functions similar to the Purchasing Unit

Warehouse Storage Unit – it functions similar to the Inventory Unit

Warehouse Output Unit – it functions similar to the Sale Unit

The storage capacity and throughout of the above units is 3 times as much as similar purchasing, sale and inventory units in factories.

In addition, you may also set up the following units in your warehouse:

Private Labeling Unit – it allows you to convert products purchased from a third-party supplier into your own brand.

Advertising Unit – it allows you to advertise the products in your warehouse. If you are doing private labeling in your warehouse, it will be convenient to use this unit to set up advertising for the products.

Functional Units in Warehouses You have built a warehouse for storing a massive amount of crude oil, in anticipation of rising oil prices.



Stock Market Enhancement

You can view the latest financial news on the stock market screen.
You may also switch it to the mode that displays the performances of your stock holdings, showing the gains or losses of individual stocks in your portfolio, as well as your total investment return to date.

[Alternative Stock Sim] option

You will see the new option Alternative Stock Sim on the New Game Setting menu’s Environment page.

If this is set to Yes, 1) stock prices are unaffected by the current economic state, and 2) stock trading between the player’s company and its subsidiaries is prohibited, thus making it harder to speculate stocks for quick profits.
New Stock Market Filter Interface

When you are playing a game with a considerable number of AI companies, you may find the new filter buttons useful. The new filter interface are situated at the top of the stock market screen, which include the following buttons:

    All – Only show any types of stocks.
    Consumer – Only show companies that sell consumer products.
    Tech – Only show technology stocks.
    Real Estate – Only show real estate stocks.
    Media – Only show media stocks.
    Investment – Only show companies whose main business activities are investing into other companies.

In addition, you may click on the Owned button to toggle whether showing only companies in which you own shares.

For example, you may choose to view only tech stocks that you currently own by clicking on the Tech button and then the Owned button.

Stock Merge

All publicly-traded stocks are required to maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share. When  a stock’s price falls below $1.0, a stock merge (also called reverse stock split) will occur automatically.



Improved Management of Your Subsidiary Companies
Issue New Shares

You will be able to order your subsidiary companies to issue new shares, in the following ways:

    Issuing new shares to the public.

    Issuing new shares, to be wholly subscribed by the parent company. In this case, the issuing price must be higher than the current stock price in the market, so that the parent company does not enjoy any advantages over other shareholders of the company.

Issue new shares

    On the Corporate Detail Report, now you can click on the new [Subsidiaries Only] button to activate the filter for showing your subsidiary companies only.

Improved Management of Your Subsidiary Companies: Issue New Shares

    You will be able to sell land plots owned by your subsidiary companies. So if you have identified a company owning a good number of valuable land plots in prime locations and is also an easy target for acquisition, you may use this feature to support your corporate expansion strategy.

Set Dividend Payout Ratio

As the chairman of your subsidiary, you may either set the dividend yourself or let the CEO of your subsidiary company set the dividend.

If you choose “I will set the dividend”, you can set the Dividend Payout Ratio by clicking on the [+] and [-] buttons.

Dividend Payout Ratio is the percentage of earnings paid to shareholders in dividends. The greater the dividend payout ratio, the more cash is returned to each investor when the dividend is paid out each year.

On the lower part of the screen, you will see a graph for the Actual Dividend Ratio, which is a percentage calculated by dividing the latest dividend paid by the stock price.

About the difference between Dividend Payout Ratio and Dividend Yield:
The Dividend Payout Ratio is calculated based on earnings per share, whereas the Dividend Yield is calculated based on the stock price.



Supply Management Tools

The following tools have been introduced to help you manage your supply chains more effectively:

Supply Management Tools

Batch Switching Supplier – use this tool at a Purchasing Unit to order a group of your firms that are currently buying a certain product, to switch to a new supplier.

Supply Management Tools (2)

Redirect Supply Links – Use this tool at a Sales unit to redirect purchasing links from your firms to the current Sales unit.




atch Switching Supplier

This new feature intends to reduce micromanagement by allowing you to order your firms to batch switching suppliers in the following way:

“All purchasing units in all of my retail/factories/warehouses/all (selectable) that are buying from source X must change to buying from source Y“

Example 
Let’s say you want to redirect all of your retail stores currently buying Cold Pills from source X to Headache Pill from source Y.

Batch Switching Supplier

Step 1
Go to a purchasing unit in any of your retail stores currently buying Cold Pills and click the [Link] button to open the Select Supplier window.
Batch Switching Supplier (2)
Step 2
Select Headache Pills and click the [Batch] button, for batch switching supplier.

From Capital Game version 12, the [Batch] button offers two options that decide which firms the change reaches. See New Batch Options in Version 12 below.
 Batch Switching Supplier (3)
Step 3
The game automatically opens the Firm Report. You can use the City and Firm Type filter controls at the top of the screen to modify the current firm list. Then click [Batch Switching Supplier] at the bottom of the screen to apply the change to all the firms in the current list.
Batch Switching Supplier (4)
It will display a message confirming the number of purchasing units that have been linked to the new supplier.
Batch Switching Supplier (5)
Step 4
View your retail stores and you will see that they are now buying Headache Pill from the new supplier.
Batch Switching Supplier (6)
Step 5
If you still have some old stock of Cold Pills at your Sale Unit that are selling at a really slow rate, and you want to put the Headache Pill on the retail shelf immediately, you may click [Clear Stock] on the Sale Unit to discard the remaining stock of Cold Pills.
Batch Switching Supplier (7)
New Batch Options in Version 12

Starting from Capital Game version 12, two options are available when you batch switch suppliers. They differ in how widely the change is applied.

Switch Supplier – Same Supplier
Apply the same supplier change to all firms that currently use the same supplier.

Switch Supplier – Same Product
Apply the same supplier change to all firms that purchase the same product, regardless of which supplier they currently buy from.
Batch Switching Supplier: the Same Supplier and Same Product options

Example
Suppose you have 4 department stores buying jeans from two different third-party suppliers. After launching your own brand of jeans, you want all of your stores to switch to purchasing your brand instead. With Switch Supplier – Same Product, you can make this change in one step.

In previous versions this would have taken two separate passes, because the jeans were being sourced from two different suppliers.



Redirect Supply Links

Redirect Supply Links

If any of your other firms have broken supply links which require the same item that the current Sales unit is selling, you may use this button to redirect their supply links to the current Sales unit.

For example, when your mine’s mineral reserve has exhausted, all Purchasing Units in your factories that were purchasing from the exhausted mine are affected.

Now that you have built a new mine. You can may click on the [Redirect Supply Links] button to redirect the supply links at all of the affected factories’ Purchasing Units to the new mine automatically. (If you don’t use this tool, you will have to manually fix each of the affected purchasing units.)

The following explains how it works with greater details and screenshots:

1) Your Logging Camp has run out of Timber.

Redirect Supply Links (2)

2) You factory which relies on your Logging Camp’s supply of Timber stopped its production because of the absence of timber.

Redirect Supply Links (3)

3) In order to fix the problem, you have located a new natural source site of Timber and proceed to build a new Logging Camp.

Redirect Supply Links (4)

4) When you click on the Sales unit of your new Logging Camp, you will see the new “Redirect Supply Link” icon as indicated below.

Redirect Supply Links (5)

You may hover the mouse over the icon to see its help message.

Redirect Supply Links (6)

Click the [Redirect Supply Links] icon, and it will automatically redirect the supply links in all of the affected factories’ Purchasing Units to your new mine, replenishing them with new supply of Timber.

In the below example, the popup message box states that it has successfully found 3 of your firms that need timber for their productions and redirected their purchase links to the new logging camp.

Redirect Supply Links (7)

Now take a look at your factory. Thanks to the renewed supply of timber, it is in full operation again!









---------------------------------------------------------















Software Company

In the Digital Age , you can develop a range of software products such as operating systems, word processors, photo editors, anti-virus software and many others.

To make your entry into the software industry, the first step is to set up a software company.

Software Company

Now access Software Guide in the Information Center to explore the various types of software you can develop.

Software Company (2)

Suppose you plan to develop 3D Modelling Software. The guide shows that you first need two software technologies: 3D Modelling Engine and 3D Graphics.

To achieve the required tech levels – tech level 20 for 3D Modelling Engine and tech level 10 for 3D Graphics, as shown in the above screenshot, you must set up Tech Programming units within your software company.

Software Company (3)

Now, click the [Hire Now] button to hire a lead programmer to develop the technology.

Software Company (4)

In the recruitment interface, select 3D Modelling Engine from the left window. The right window will display a list of job candidates with technical expertise in 3D Modelling Engine.

The Digital Age  introduces a new talent system for the hiring process. For more details, click the button below.
Info about the Talent System

Software Company (5)

You can set up two or more Tech Programming units and link them together for greater performance, similar to how R&D units are linked in an R&D center.

In the screenshot below, we have set up two pairs of Tech Programming units specializing in 3D Modelling Engine and 3D Graphics respectively. (The team lead’s skill automatically determines the specialization of a Tech Programming unit.)

Software Company (6)

To start the tech development, simply click the [Start R&D] button and select a development duration that will advance the tech to at least level 30.

The development will commence immediately, as shown below.

Software Company (7)

The next step is to set up a Project Management unit to oversee the development of the software product.

Software Company (8)

Then, pair the Project Management unit with a Project Programming unit.

Here is a quick recap:
A Tech Programming unit (can link several together) —> for development of Software Tech.

A Project Management unit linked to a Project Programming unit —> for development of a Software Product.

Software Company (9)

The resulting setup will look like this:

Software Company (10)

Now, wait for the development of the 3D Modelling Tech and 3D Graphics to be completed. (Ensure that the resulting technologies have reached required levels. Otherwise, you will need to start a new round of development to achieve the required tech levels.)

Next, click the [New Project] button in the Project Management unit, and select 3D Modelling Software from the list, as shown below.

Software Company (11)
Operating System

Finally, you can choose an operating system to develop your software product for.

In the Digital Age , there is a company specializing in the development of operating systems. You can expect to see the first operating system debut on the market soon after the game begins. If it is still too early in the game and no operating system is available yet, just be patient and wait a couple of years, and you will see one.

Software Company: Operating System

After you have selected an operating system and named your software product, the software development project will begin.

Software Company: Operating System (2)

The development of the 3D Modelling Software is now progress.


Software Products

In the Digital Age , there are a total of 20 types of software products, which are grouped under the following 7 product classes.

    Operating System
    Office Software
    Computer Security
    Graphic Design Software
    Video Software
    Utility Software
    Audio Software

You can view the details of each type of software products from the Software Guide, which is accessible from the Information Center.

Each software product requires a set list of technologies. For example, computer OS requires the following technologies:

    Computer OS Core
    Computer OS Display
    Computer OS Input

Software Products

Required Technology Level 
As you can see in the above screenshot, for each pre-requisite technology, there is a required technology level. In order to unlock the software product type, all the pre-requisite technologies must reach the required technology levels.

Tech Importance Weight 
Each technology contributes differently to the software product’s overall tech level.

For instance, the Computer OS Core tech affects the software product’s overall tech level more than the Computer OS Input tech.

The importance of each tech is indicated by the weight bar. To see exactly how important each tech is, hover your mouse over the weight bar and you will see a popup box showing the exact weight value, as shown below.

Software Products (2)

Software Products (3)
Different Software Product Classes

The following screenshots show the various software product classes in the game and the software types within each class.

Office Software

Software Products: Different Software Product Classes

Audio Software

Software Products: Different Software Product Classes (2)

Computer Security Software

Software Products: Different Software Product Classes (3)

Graphic Design Software

Software Products: Different Software Product Classes (4)

Utility Software

Software Products: Different Software Product Classes (5)

Video Software












-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Selling Software Products

In a digital economy, you will be able to sell your software products through any of the following methods:
​
1) Producing packaged software products in a factory and selling them in retail stores.
2) Producing packaged software products in a factory and selling them via your e-commerce firm.
3) Selling your software products by means of digital download via your e-commerce firm.

However, it takes years for e-commerce to gain traction and become mainstream. Prior to that, software products are mainly sold through retail channels. So it is important to first master the production and sale operations of packaged software products.
How to Produce Packaged Software Products in a Factory

After you have developed your software in a software firm, you can use a factory to produce packaged software products and subsequently sell them at retail.

Packaged software products are produced using DVDs and paper, as shown in the Manufacturer’s Guide.

Selling Software Products: How to Produce Packaged Software Products in a Factory

Once you have completed a software project in your software company, you will see a new icon on the factory interface, as shown below. Use it to automatically set up a production layout in your factory for producing packaged software products.

Selling Software Products: How to Produce Packaged Software Products in a Factory (2)

After clicking the icon, it will prompt you to choose a software product for your factory to make, as shown below.

Selling Software Products: How to Produce Packaged Software Products in a Factory (3)

Once you have made the decision, the factory will producing software products, provided that the required raw materials are available.

Selling Software Products: How to Produce Packaged Software Products in a Factory (4)
How to Sell Software Products via E-commerce

To learn how to sell your software products, either as digital download products or packaged software products via e-commerce, please click the following link.
E-Commerce
Releasing New Versions of Your Software Products

In the software business, it is important that you keep releasing new versions of your software products with better quality to please your customers and boost sales.

Commercially successful software products all have new releases on a regular basis. Those without any new releases for years inevitably suffer poor sales.

To see the frequency of new releases, you may open the Software report and take a look at the sale graphs where new version releases are denoted in yellow lines, as shown in the below screenshot.

Selling Software Products: Releasing New Versions of Your Software Products

To develop a new version, you may use the following buttons on the software company interface.

Selling Software Products: Releasing New Versions of Your Software Products (2)

[New Version] button 
Start a project for developing a new version of the software product that was previously completed here. As a thumb of rule, the new version should be noticeably better than the previous version. So you must first invest the necessary time and resources to improve the tech before contemplating a new release.

[Auto] button – Automatically develop new versions 
If this is enabled, it will automatically develop next versions of the software when more advanced tech has been researched. ​​This tool is useful for reducing micromanagement when you have a lot of software companies to manage.



E-Commerce

To sell your products via e-commerce, first set up an Internet company specializing in E-Commerce.

Internet Company Setup Guide
E-Commerce

You will see a new E-Commerce bar below your factories and other wholesale firms (farms and warehouses), as shown in the following screenshot.

E-Commerce (2)

When you enable e-commerce sales for this firm by enabling the checkbox on the e-commerce bar, all your existing e-commerce Internet companies will automatically add all consumer products from this firm to its catalog, and you will see the new interface for setting e-commerce prices (see the area indicated in red on the above screenshot.)
Selling Your Software Products via E-Commerce

You may also sell your software by means of digital download via your e-commerce firm. This will save you the hassle of producing packaged box versions of your software products.

The revenue sharing between the e-commerce firm and the software company is 30/70. (70% goes to the software company).

Since it takes time for e-commerce to gain widespread acceptance, it is always a good idea to sell your software products via both digital download and retail distribution.

Selling Your Software Products via E-Commerce

Once you have enabled E-Commerce Sales, all the consumer products in the firm will be automatically linked to your e-commerce firm.

Selling Your Software Products via E-Commerce (2)

To see a summary of products being sold via your e-commerce firm, click the E–Commerce button to view the E-Commerce page, as shown in the above screenshot.
Freights

For e-commerce transactions, the products are shipped directly from factories and warehouses to the customers. The freights are paid by the customers. So you will not see freights as an expenditure item on the income statement of your firms.

Please note that products with high freight costs (relative to its selling price) sell less well on e-Commerce as consumers have to pay for the freight. For example, for a pack of frozen chicken with a price of $4 and a freight cost of $2. The freight cost is 50% of the selling price. On the other hand, a desktop computer selling for $600 has a freight cost of $60, which is 10% of the selling price. In this example, the desktop computer will sell well on e-Commerce, whereas the frozen chicken will not.
Viewing E-Commerce Sales in the Product Detail Report

When the Digital Age is enabled, you could click the [E-Commerce] button to switch the list to display products that are sold via e-commerce, as shown in the below screenshot.

One of the characteristics of e-commerce is that an e-commerce product can be sold to any customer in any city. Thus you will see that the price of an e-commerce product is the same for all cities. This is in contrast to products being sold at retail stores where you could set different prices in different cities for the same product. It is important to recognize this and set your pricing strategy accordingly.




Telecom

In the Digital Age, you can set up a telecom to provide Internet services to customers. The number of Internet users can be viewed from the Digital page of the City report, as shown below.

Telecom

If you intend to set up an Internet company, you should pay close attention to the number of Internet users, as the viability and profitability of an Internet company heavily depends on it.

To ensure the healthy growth of the Internet population, it is essential for a city to have telecom providers offering Internet services with adequate bandwidth capacity. This is where you can contribute by establishing your own telecom company.

To build a telecom, select Digital Age from the Build menu and then select Telecom.

Telecom (2)

Click on a telecom to see the following interface.

Telecom

Current Internet pricing
This is the monthly subscription fee that the company charges customers for the Internet services provided.

Set the next month Internet pricing
Set a new Internet monthly subscription fee that will become effective next month.

Use the slider to set the monthly budget for upgrading infrastructure
The maximum number of subscribers that your telecom can serve is limited by its infrastructure capacity. Set a budget here for upgrading its infrastructure capacity if most of its capacity has already been utilized.

It goes without saying that all customers prefer high quality of Internet access. To tell whether your telecom is capable of delivering high quality of services, you could subtract the infrastructure capacity by the utilized capacity. This indicates whether your telecom’s infrastructure capacity is large enough to handle heavy Internet traffic during peak hours.



The Talent System

The Digital Age  introduces a revamped talent system for R&D centers and software companies.

In this system, lead researchers for R&D centers and lead programmers for software companies need to be individually recruited.
Gameplay Implications

With a limited supply of talented individuals in each city, companies will compete fiercely to recruit them. Those who act too slowly may find themselves at a disadvantage, missing out on the most skilled and brilliant researchers—crucial assets for the success of any tech company.

To hire a lead researcher, click the [Hire Now] button on an R&D unit, which will bring up the following interface:

Talent System: Gameplay Implications

Attributes of a Job Candidate:

    Skill: The current skill level of the candidate.
    Salary: More skilled candidates will demand higher salaries, as expected.

Once hired, the details of the lead researcher will appear in the R&D unit, as shown below.

Talent System: Gameplay Implications (2)

Besides the lead researcher, each R&D unit also employs a number of researchers as team members, indicated by the staff icons in the bottom-left corner of the screenshot above. (The new talent system applies only to the lead researcher.)

The lead researcher’s skill is the most critical factor in determining the R&D unit’s overall research efficiency, as the performance of the research team members depends on the competency of the lead researcher.

In the example above, the line “Product Dev Skill: Computer” indicates that this lead researcher specializes in Computer and has a skill level of 80in this area.

Since the supply of talented individuals in each area of specialization is limited, it is crucial to act quickly and hire the people you need early in the game.
Employee Loyalty

Below the skill level display, the loyalty of the employee is shown.

An employee with higher loyalty is less likely to be lured away by competitors. When an employee’s loyalty level is 80 or higher, it indicates that they are content working for you and will not consider headhunting offers from other companies.

However, when an employee’s loyalty level drops below 20, it signifies that their discontent has reached a level where they may quit at any time.

You can increase an employee’s loyalty in the following ways:

    Give a salary raise.
    Set a higher training budget.

Additionally, keep in mind that as an employee’s skill improves, they will reasonably expect a higher salary. Failing to acknowledge their growth and provide a well-deserved salary raise will gradually weaken their loyalty.
Automated Loyalty Targeting

The automated loyalty targeting feature can increase salaries automatically to reach the desired loyalty level.

Talent System: Automated Loyalty Targeting

To activate this feature, click the [Auto] button next to the loyalty value display.

Once activated, you can set the Target Loyalty using the [+] and [-] icons.

Note that new functional units with talents will always use the most recent settings as the default.
Headhunting

If you cannot find suitable candidates for your company’s job openings, you may attempt to headhunt talents from other companies.

To do so, click the [Headhunt] button to bring up the Headhunt window.

Talent System: Headhunting

To headhunt someone, you must offer a higher salary along with a sign-up bonus equal to one year’s salary. Additionally, the more loyal the individual is to their current employer, the higher the salary you will need to offer.

Talent System: Headhunting (2)

As you can see, headhunting comes with a significant cost, so it should only be considered if you believe the investment is truly worthwhile.
Transferring Talents from Your Subsidiary Companies

You can transfer a talent from a subsidiary company to your current firm.

To do this, click the [Headhunt Targets Include Subsidiaries] button. Once enabled, the list of headhunt targets will include employees from your subsidiary companies.

Next, select a talent from the list and click the [Transfer] button to move the talent from your subsidiary company to your current firm.

Talent System: Transferring Talents from Your Subsidiary Companies
Viewing Available Talents in Different Cities

When planning to build a new R&D center or software company, you can first review the available talents in different cities through your Human Resources Department to determine where the best talents are located.

Talent System: Viewing Available Talents in Different Cities

Talent System: Viewing Available Talents in Different Cities (2)
Raising Team Leads’ Salaries in Accordance with Inflation

When playing a game with inflation enabled, it is important to regularly offer salary increases to the team leads in your companies at a rate that matches inflation. Failure to do so will result in a decline in their loyalty, and they may eventually quit their jobs.

To save you from the tedious task of manually adjusting individual salaries, the game offers an option to automatically adjust team leads’ salaries based on inflation. This option is available in the Human Resources Department of your Headquarters and is enabled by default when you start a new game with inflation enabled.


Technology Research

In the Digital Age , the success of your software products and internet companies greatly depends on the underlying technologies. Hence, it is imperative to invest heavily in technology research to stay ahead of the competition.
How to Research Technologies in R&D Centers

First, add a team of “Tech R&D” units to a R&D center, as shown below.

Technology Research: How to Research Technologies in R&D Centers

Once the Tech R&D units have been added, hire researchers with the appropriate skills using the new talent system.
Learn More about the Talent System

 

Technology Research: How to Research Technologies in R&D Centers (2)

Click the [Start R&D] button and select a duration for the new research project.

Technology Research: How to Research Technologies in R&D Centers (3)

The R&D project will begin.

Technology Research: How to Research Technologies in R&D Centers (4)

Once the research project is completed, depending on the type of technology researched, you can apply the resulting technology to a software company or an internet company.

For more details, click the buttons below:
Software Company Internet Company
Accelerated Technology Gain from R&D Projects

To help new competitors catch up with established tech companies, the game includes the following mechanism:

When a competitor’s technology level exceeds 100 and your technology level is significantly lower than theirs, your rate of technology gain from R&D projects is boosted.

Additional Technology Gain Formula:

The additional technology gain is calculated as:

Additional Tech Gain = (Baseline Tech Gain from R&D) × (Highest Tech Level – Your Tech Level) / Highest Tech Level

Example:

Your technology level for “Core Search Tech” is 50.
The highest technology level for this tech, held by a competitor, is 500.
Starting an R&D project gives a baseline tech gain of 30.

Using the formula:
Additional Tech Gain = 30 × (500 – 50) / 500 = 27

Total Tech Gain = Baseline Tech Gain + Additional Tech Gain = 30 + 27 = 57

Thus, your total tech gain from this R&D project will be 57.


When you add up the Weight of the above 3 technologies (30+20+50), the total Weight must be 100. 

Note that the maximum number of technologies per product is 3. If you add more than 3 technologies, the game will disregard the excessive ones.




Acquiring a Private Company Outright

AI controlled tech companies that are private and independent may be open to acquisition offers.

If you are interested in making an acquisition offer to one of them, you may click the [Acquire Company] button on the Corporate Details report, as shown below.

Acquiring a Private Company Outright

Acquiring a Private Company Outright (2)

Acquiring a Private Company Outright (3)

Using Your Subsidiary Company to Acquire a Private Company

If you have Subsidiary  enabled in your game, you will be able to use your subsidiary company to acquire a private company. After clicking the [Acquire] button, you can choose the company that will make the acquisition, as shown in the following screenshot.
























The Digital Age  adds four connected businesses — software, internet services, e-commerce and telecom — held together by a talent system in which the people you hire matter more than the buildings you put them in. This page collects the prerequisites, the chains of cause and effect, and the questions that come up most, with each answer linking to the page that covers it in full.

In this guide:

    Requirements at a glance
    Getting started
    Building software
    Selling what you build
    Internet companies and telecom
    Talent, loyalty and research
    The video game MOD
    FAQ

Requirements at a glance
What you want to do 	What it requires
Develop a software product 	A software company, its prerequisite technologies at their required levels, and a Project Management unit paired with a Project Programming unit
Develop a software technology 	Tech Programming units in the software company, with a lead programmer hired for that technology. Several can be linked together, exactly like R&D units
Release a software product at all 	An operating system to build it for — and its sales are limited by that OS’s user base
Sell software by digital download 	An Internet company specializing in E-Commerce. Revenue splits 70% to the software company, 30% to the e-commerce firm
Sell packaged software at retail 	A completed software project, then a factory — packaged software is made from DVDs and paper
Run an Internet company profitably 	Enough Internet users in the city, which depends on telecom providers having spare bandwidth capacity
Improve a website’s Overall Quality 	Features Quality (a monthly development budget) and Technology (Tech R&D units in an R&D center)
Headhunt someone from a rival 	A higher salary plus a sign-up bonus equal to one year’s salary — and the more loyal they are, the more you must offer
Acquire a private AI tech company 	An offer from the Corporate Details report. With the Subsidiary  on, a subsidiary can make the acquisition instead
Develop a video game console OS (video game MOD) 	Console OS Core, Display and Input at tech level 30, or the Player Starts with OS Tech new game setting
Getting started
The settings that decide how hard the tech economy is

On the Digital Age tab of the new game settings:

    Software Revenue Index and Internet Revenue Index — above 100 makes those businesses more profitable than normal, below 100 less.
    Max AI Software and Internet Companies — a lower value is an easier game. Note that AI companies focused on software and internet are added on top of the number of AI competitors you set, so this sector is always contested.
    Talent System — Simplified starts every talent at skill 50; Greatly Simplified also switches off loyalty and headhunting. If the hiring game is not what you came for, this is the switch.
    Disruption to Traditional Media — as people move online, TV, radio and newspapers lose their audience. Turn it on if you want the era simulated rather than just added.
    Maximum E-commerce Share — caps e-commerce as a percentage of total retail sales.

Pick the Digital Age goal set if you want the  to set the agenda

Select Digital Age Goals from the goal set menu when you start the game; press G at any time for the full list. See Digital Age Goals. The  also ships five scenarios — Scenario screen → the Digital Age  button. See New Scenarios.
Building software
Two different unit pairs, and mixing them up is the usual mistake

The structure is worth memorising, because nothing works until both halves exist:

    Tech Programming units develop a technology. Link several together for greater performance, the way R&D units link. The team lead’s skill decides what the unit specializes in.
    A Project Management unit paired with a Project Programming unit develops a product.

Read the requirements first: the Software Guide in the Information Center lists each product’s prerequisite technologies and the level each must reach. 3D Modelling Software, for example, needs 3D Modelling Engine at level 20 and 3D Graphics at level 10. Choose a development duration that takes the tech past the requirement — if it finishes short, you must run another round before the product unlocks. See Software Company.
Not all prerequisites matter equally

Each technology carries a Tech Importance Weight toward the finished product’s overall tech level — Computer OS Core counts for more than Computer OS Input. Hover the weight bar in the Software Guide to see the exact value, and put your best programmers on the heavy ones. There are 20 software products in 7 classes: Operating System, Office, Computer Security, Graphic Design, Video, Utility and Audio. See Software Products.
The OS you build for caps your sales

A brilliant product on a platform nobody uses will not sell. Watch the installed base before committing a product to an OS. If no operating system exists yet early in the game, wait — a specialist AI company brings the first one to market soon after the game begins. See Operating System.
If you launch your own OS, apps decide it

An OS product is rated on quality, brand and price like anything else — plus an Apps Availability rating, calculated from the variety and quality of applications available for it. That is the whole war in one number: an OS wins by attracting software, not by being technically better. Expect the incumbent to fight hard.
Ship new versions or watch sales decay

Products that go years without a new release suffer poor sales; every commercially successful product releases regularly. The Software report (F3) marks releases as yellow lines on the sales graphs — you can see the bump each one produces, on your products and on competitors’. Improve the underlying tech first, so the new version is noticeably better, and use the automatic new version option once you are running enough software companies that doing it by hand is a chore. See Selling Software Products and Software Report.
Selling what you build
Three routes, and early on only one of them works

You can produce packaged software and sell it at retail, produce packaged software and sell it through e-commerce, or sell by digital download through e-commerce. E-commerce takes years to become mainstream, so master packaged production and retail distribution first, and sell through both channels rather than betting on one.
Digital download pays 70/30 in your favour

Revenue from a digital download splits 70% to the software company and 30% to the e-commerce firm — and when you own both, all of it stays in the group while you skip the cost and hassle of manufacturing boxes.
Freight decides what sells online

On e-commerce the customer pays the freight, so it never appears as an expense on your income statement — but it does appear in their decision. What matters is freight as a share of price: a $600 desktop computer with $60 freight is 10% and sells well; a $4 pack of frozen chicken with $2 freight is 50% and does not. Put high-value, low-bulk goods online and leave the rest at retail. See E-Commerce.
One price, everywhere

An e-commerce product can be sold to any customer in any city, so its price is the same in every city — unlike retail, where you can price city by city. Plan the pricing strategy accordingly: you cannot skim a rich city and discount a poor one through the same online catalogue.
Internet companies and telecom
Check the internet population before you build

An internet company’s viability depends on how many people are online, shown on the Digital page of the City report. That number grows only when telecom providers offer service with enough bandwidth — which is an opportunity: build the telecom yourself and you create the customers for your own websites. See Telecom.
Run a telecom by watching one subtraction

Subscribers are limited by infrastructure capacity. Infrastructure capacity minus utilized capacity tells you whether the network can carry peak-hour traffic; when the gap narrows, raise the monthly infrastructure upgrade budget. Pricing is set a month ahead — the price you set takes effect next month.
Quality is features plus technology

A website’s Overall Quality drives monthly unique visitors and how fast market share grows, and it comes from two places: Features Quality, raised by the monthly development budget slider, and Technology, raised by Tech R&D units in an R&D center. On a subscription site, Features Quality is replaced by Content Quality with a content budget. See Internet Companies.
Advertise on your own media if you own any

Use Link Media on the Marketing page to advertise a website. Where you own the media firm, the advertising spend comes back as that firm’s revenue — the same money buys traffic and stays in the group. Note the structural difference the  introduces: internet advertising reaches every city, while a traditional media firm’s advertising only reaches its own city.
Know which revenue model you are running

    Advertising — social network, search engine, video sharing, photo sharing, microblogging. You set the Cost per Click; price far above competitors and advertisers simply go elsewhere.
    E-commerce — covered above.
    Service fees — online auction, hotel booking, car rental booking, online stock trading. Revenue is directly proportional to visitor traffic, so traffic is the only lever.
    Subscription — news site, video on demand, where content quality replaces feature quality.

See Types of Internet Companies.
Talent, loyalty and research
Hire early — the supply is finite

Lead researchers for R&D units and lead programmers for software companies are recruited individually, and each city holds a limited supply of talented people. Companies compete for them, and slow movers are left with what remains. Before you decide where to build an R&D center or a software company, check which cities actually have the talent through your Human Resources Department. See The Talent System.
The lead’s skill is the unit’s ceiling

A unit also employs ordinary team members, but the lead researcher’s skill is the most critical factor in the unit’s research efficiency — the team performs to the level of whoever leads it. One excellent lead beats two mediocre ones.
Loyalty has two numbers worth remembering

80 or above and an employee will not entertain offers from competitors. Below 20 and they may quit at any moment. Raise loyalty with a salary rise or a bigger training budget — and remember that as someone’s skill grows they expect to be paid for it; not recognising that erodes loyalty on its own. The automated loyalty targeting switch raises salaries by itself to hold a target you set, and new units inherit your most recent setting.
With inflation on, salaries must move with it

If inflation is enabled and team lead salaries stay flat, loyalty drifts down and your best people leave. The Human Resources Department in your headquarters has an option to adjust team lead salaries by inflation automatically — it is on by default in games started with inflation, and it is worth checking rather than assuming.
Headhunt only when the maths works

Taking someone from a rival costs a higher salary plus a sign-up bonus of one year’s salary, and the more loyal they are to their current employer, the higher the offer has to be. If the Subsidiary  is enabled, there is a cheaper move first: transfer a talent from one of your own subsidiaries, which puts subsidiary employees in the headhunt list.
Being behind is not fatal — the game boosts catch-up

When a competitor’s technology level is above 100 and yours is well below it, your gain from R&D projects is boosted:

Additional Tech Gain = Baseline Gain × (Highest Tech Level − Your Tech Level) ÷ Highest Tech Level

With your level at 50, the leader at 500 and a baseline gain of 30, the bonus is 27 — a total of 57, nearly double. Entering a technology late is therefore much less punishing than it looks; what you cannot recover is a user base. See Technology Research.
Buying in is sometimes faster than building

Private, independent AI tech companies may accept an outright acquisition offer, made from the Corporate Details report. With the Subsidiary  enabled you can choose which of your companies makes the purchase. See Acquiring a Private Company.
The video game MOD

The video game mod kit replaces the ’s software industry with a video game industry, and adds one rule the base game does not have: a game title can be owned by only one company. Once a rival makes “Restaurant Empire”, nobody else can — which turns franchises into something worth collecting.

    Hardware IP first, if you want your own console. Add a Product IP unit in an R&D center and choose Proprietary — higher margins, no help growing the platform — or Open Source, where third parties manufacture too, so the user base grows quickly but price competition takes the margin. Skip this entirely if you would rather write games for someone else’s console.
    Then a console OS. Console OS Core, Display and Input at level 30 or better. The research takes several years; the Player Starts with OS Tech new game setting removes that wait.
    Then games. Pick a genre from the Software Guide, develop its technology, and choose from the pre-defined titles available at your tech level. Generic titles are not possible by design — and since each MOD ships a finite list, a genre whose titles are all taken means moving to another genre, or adding your own custom titles as 120×120 PNGs.

